<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_012>>>
INTRODUCTION

    Tue name “Homer” brings before the mind ἃ
 definite picture of the blind minstrel, rouming from
 city to city and singing or chanting portions of the
 great poems that are traditionally ascribed to him,
 Such a type is splendidly represented by the bust of
 Homer in the Naples Museum, and almost all that
 tradition tells of the poet, save in so far as it is
made up of statements regarding his date—which
in turn rest upon combinations often demonstrably
false—groups itself about such a typical figure, and
is plainly without historie worth.
    The ancient “lives” of Homer which have come
down to us are ell Ister than the beginning of the
Christian era, and from them we can gather little
that has any claim to attention except the two
statements that Homer was an Ionian—Chios and
‘Smyrna beitig the cities most uniformly given as. his
birthplace; and that in Chios there was a guild or
clan of Homeridae—that is, “sons of Homer.”
The first mention of the Chian Homeridae occurs
in the geographer Strabo (about 18 a.p.). Pindar
                                                   vii

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_013>>>
INTRODUCTION
uses the term apparently of those devoted to
Homeric poetry without any reference to the Chian
clan, and the word is similarly used by Plato.
   ‘As for the name “Homer” itself it is most
naturally taken as that of ἃ real individual—a poet
to whom by the middle of the sixth century sc.
the great mass of epic poetry which survived from
the early age of Greece had come to be attri
buted; although as time went on all poems save
the Miad and Odyssey were rejected, and in later
antiquity there were those who referred these to
separate authors. ‘The earliest author to mention
Homer is Callinus of Ephesus (about 660 5.6) and
the earliest quotation from the Homeric poems is
found in Simonides of Amorgos, of the sume date,
unless it is possibly to be attributed to the later
‘Simonides of Ceos (about 480 n.c.). Modern scholars
have, however, made many attempts—all uncon-
vineing—to interpret the word “Homer” in other
ways than as the name of anactual person, The
word itself means “hostage.” It has been thought
that the Homeridae may have been “sons of
hhostages”"—not trusted to fight but allowed to
serve as custodians of traditional poetry—and that
“Homer” is merely their imaginary ancestor
others, seeking different etymology for the word,
vit

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_014>>>
INTRODUCTION
have held that it denotes merely the legendary
fittertogether or harmonizer (ὁμῇ      +ἀρ) of tradi-
tional poetical material. That       the word means
“blind” was assumed in antiquity, but is believed
by no one.
    If the personality of the poet, under whose name
the Odyssey has come down to us, is thus vague
and shadowy—even the most familiar elements
being drawn perhaps from his own portrayal of the
lind bard, Demodocus—so too there has seemed
to many scholars to be a like obscurity rega
the early history of the poem itself. Regarding
this the evidence is as follows:
   ‘The oldest manuscripts of the Odyssey date from
the tenth and eleventh centuries av. Papyrus
fragments whose dates range from the third cen-
tury n.c. to the fourth century A.p. carry our know-
ledge still farther back, and the evidence afforded
by our acquaintance with the work of the Alexan-
drian grammarians is invaluable in tracing the
history of the text; while, finally, we have quota-
 tions from Homer in classical authors, and some-
what vague and not wholly convincing evidence of
the constitution of an authoritative text at Athens
in the sixth century ».c, Certain facts stand out
prominently. First, our modem text is remarkably
                                                    x

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_015>>>
INTRODUCTION
  well established—far better established than is, for
  example, the text of Shakespeare. Secondly, this
  text seems to have been fixed as the result of a
  purging or pruning process. We know, for example,
  that the critical work of the Alexandrians was con-
  cemed largely with the rejection of lines held on
 ‘one ground or another to be spurious, that the text
 of the papyri differs widely from our vulgate text,
 and that the quotations in ancient authors show
 many lines not found in our Homer.
     From this evidence the conclusion has been drawn
 that in antiquity “Homer” meant the whole mass
 of epic poetry—for this there is definite evidence—
 and that our Iliad and Odyssey, both as regards text
 and content, were in a more or less fluid state οἱ
 they gradually crystallized into the forms familiar
 to us. On this view it is impossible to speak of a
 poet, Homer,asthe author either of Iliad or Odyssey.
 It should be stated, however, that while much of
 moder Homeric criticism bas been analytic and
destructive, in many important respects recent
studies have shown that both the methods and the
results of destructive criticism are misleading, and
have given stronger and more convincing grounds
for a belief in the essential integrity of both poems,
each as the work of one supreme artist,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_016>>>
INTRODUCTION
    The most notable Homeric crities of antiquity
were Zenodotus of Ephesus, librarian of the great
library at Alexandria under Ptolemy Philadelphus
(who reigned 285-247 n.c.), Aristophanes of By-
zantium,a pupil of Zenodotus, and like him, librarian
‘at Alexandria (about 200 n.c.), and Aristarchus of
Samothrace, pupilofAristophanes and his successor
as librarian (about 160 n.c.).    Other scholars cited
in the critical notes are Rhianus (about 225 5.6).
the poet, Onomacritus (about 550 n.c.), and Callis-
tratus, a follower of Aristophanes,
    ‘The aim of the translator has been to give a
 faithful rendering of the Odyssey that preserves in
 so far as possible certain traits of the style of the
 original. Such ἃ rendering should be smooth and
 flowing and should be given in elevated but not
 in stilted language. In particular the recurrent
 lines and phrases which are so noticeable in the
 original should be preserved. Hence even when
 in a given context a varying phrase would seem
 preferable, the translator has felt bound to use the
 traditional formula, This has in some instances
 necessitated the use of a more or less colourless
 phrase, adapted to various contexts, In the ease of
 doubtful renderings, alternatives are sometimes
 given in a footnote,
                                                     a

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_018>>>
‘BIBLIOGRAPHY
    ‘The manuscriptsofthe Odyssey have been most carefully
 studied and classifed by Ma” W, Allen, the results of
‘hose studiesare given inthe Papers oftheBritish     Schootat
 Rome, vol. τιν pp.1-85, andbriely in his Oxford text of the
 Odystey. Chick among the manuscripts are -—
 aur, 82, 34and Laur. 62, both of the tenth century, in the
       ‘Laurentian Library ae Florence.
 Hirl. 5074,ofthethirteenth      contury,intheBritish Museum.
 B. 99 sup., of tho thirteenth century, inthe Ambrosian
       Library at Milan.
 Marg.    615οἱ the thirteenth cotury, ia the Library of St
 Pal, 45, written in 1201, in the Palatine Library at Heidel-
       dere.
                        ‘Parerep Eorioxs
    Eilitio Princep, by Demetrius Chaleondylen, Florence,
1488
1856;   ;iret,
          Aldine, 1604Berio,    «δὰ 1607;
                                      180   Juntine,
                                            and  1879 1819
                                                      ; La ? Bekker,Leipag.
                                                           ‘Roche,    Bonn,
e073
‘any.      5ick, Gatiingen,
          edivons          since        1885sBayman,
                                   1886);       Amale Hants,
                                                        London, sipete   (8;
                                                                   “1000-82
Merry
1n86; and  Ladwich, Riddell,Leipagy
                                 Books 2X1?
                                         1680-01Oxford,     ascend edition,
                                                    van Leoawen      and da
Costa,     Leyden,         1800;   Monro,   Books
ΤῚΣ Hennings, risa somentary witoat tei, Bonin,    XIIL-SXIV.,      Oxford,
1 “The most convenient text editions are thoae in the Oxford
κοῦ      the Tesbner aeriony that by Monro (Homers Opera, et
Reliquiae), Oxtord; that by Csuer, Leipzig; and that by
Plath, Combrige
    ‘There, 1821,are andeliiioos
Berlin,
                                    of the Greck Scholle by Buttmann,
                               byDindort, Oxford, 1855, and of Eusta-
thio                 Commentary, Berlin, 1825-6,
                                                                    xi

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_019>>>
BIBLIOGRAPHY
                         Roun Trasstarioxs
   ‘elds
there  may  thebeeited
                  older theversions
                               verse oftranslations
                                         Chapman, Pope,    b y " .    and
                                                                       δ.  Co
                                                                          Wortley,
edinburgh  and London,
Morris, London,         Reeves Wr.      Back wood
                                 and Turner         J. astW, Sone;  Mackall,Wiles,
                                                                               Lon-
don, Joh Murray Ac 8. Wayr London, Mugrilac; ed
WB.itorGotteril
          are proe(in hexamnetes),fioston,
                          venony iyDutcher Dana,                     Katon and Co
                                                       and         Lang:   London
(onj'and Sante! Butler, Lowdoa, ‘Longmans, Green andMitin and
Macmillan;         Ὁ . Ἢ.  Patiner,       Hostan, Houghton,                     Go,
                  Bors anour Hownn
  ut of the multitude of books about Homer the following
may be cited at of high interest to the student of the
Odiyjuaey—




   Worksnthe
aiid       ofa purely
                 above linguistic
                        lak        or grammatical
                              Menton        may      character
                                                 hover,   bendeare
Monrie3° Homeric
         Grammar   Lexicon
                      of   ofHomers
                         the       Boaling (Bvalu,(Oxlort
                                                   Lali, 1668)
Gaition,  190);   and   van   Leouwen's    iste’
                                             Enchiium        seeand
Epicae (Leyden,       1894).
                                                         Dictonte

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_022>>>
THE      ODYSSEY

                     BOOK     1
   Tett me, O Muse, of the man of many devices,
who wandered full many ways after he had sacked
the sacred eitadel of Trey.” Many were the men
whose cities he saw and whose mind he leaned, aye,
and many the woes he suffered in his heart upon the
sea, secking to win his own life and the return of
his comrades. Yet even so he saved not his com-
rades, though he desired it sore, for through their
own blind folly they perished—fools, who devoured
the kine of Helios Hyperion but he took from them
the day of their returning. Ofthese things, goddess,
daughter of Zeus, beginning where thou wilt, tell
thou even unto us.
   ‘Now all the rest, as many as had escaped sheer
destruction, were at home, safe from both war and
sea, but Odysseus alone, filled with longing for his
return and for his wife, did the queenly nymph Ca-
lypso, that bright goddess, keep back in her hollow
caves, yearning that he should be her husband. But
when, as the seasons revolved, the year came in
which the gods had ordained that he should return
home to Ithaca, not even there was he free from
toils, even among his own folk, And all the gods
                                                    3

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_024>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 20-43
pitied him save Poseidon; but he continued to rage
unceasingly
he reached hisagainst
                  own land.   godlike Odysseus until at Tength
                                                                  τ
     Howbeit Poseidon had gone among the far-off
Ethiopians—the Ethiopians who dwell sundered in
twain, the farthermost of men, some where Hyperion
sets and some where he rises, there to receive ἃ heca-
tomb of bulls and rams, and there he was taking his
joy, sitting at the feast; but the other gods were
fathered together in the hulls of Olympian Zeus.
Among them the father of gods and men was first to
speak, for in his heart he thought of noble Acgis-
    wus, whom far-famed Orestes, Agamemnon’s son,
had'slain. ‘Thinking on him he spoke among the
immortals, and said:
    «Look you now, how ready mortals are to blame
the gods. It is from us, they say, that evils come,
but they even of themselves, through their own
Dlind folly, have sorrows beyond that which is or-
dained,. ven as now Aegisthus, beyond that which
was ordained, took to himself the wedded wife of
the son of Atreus, and slew him on his return,
though well he knew of sheer destruction, seeing
that we spake to him before, sending Hermes, the
keen-sighted Argetphontes,! that he should neither
slay the man nor woo his wife; for from Orestes
shall come vengeance for the son of Atreas when
‘once he has come to manhood and longs for his own
land. So Hermes spoke, but for all his good intent
he prevailed not upon the heart of Acgisthus; and
now he has paid the full price of all.”
“tho     swith ap eaptoetse” foetal,
διae age (toot
                             (root gm). ‘The
                                          aa rendering
                                             there    bao “stras
                                                            layer ofοἱ
              γε inHomer,
                                                                     5

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_026>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 44-69
  ‘Thenthegoddess,     lashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: “Father of us all, thou son of Cronos, high
above all lords, aye, verily that man lies low in a
destruction that is his due; so, too, may any other
also be destroyed who does such deeds. But my
heart is torn for wise Odysseus, hapless’ man, who
far from his friends has long been suffering woesin
ἃ sea-girt isle, where is the navel of the sea. Tis
ἃ wooded isle, and therein dwellsἃgoddess, daughter
of Atlas of baneful mind, who knows the depths of
every sea, and himself holds the tall pillars. which
keep earth and heaven apart. His daughter it is
that keeps back that wretched, sorrowing man; and
ever with soft and wheedling words she beguiles
hhim that he may forget Ithaca, But Odysseus, in
his longing to see were it but the smoke leaping up
from his own land, yeams to die. Yet thy heart
doth not regard it, Olympian. Did not Odysseus
beside the ships of the Atgives offer thee sacrifice
without stint in the broad land of Troy? Wherefore
then didst thou conceive such wrath? against him,
Ὁ Zeus?”
   Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered her and
said: “My child, what a word has escaped the barrier
of thy teeth? How should I, then, forget godlike
Odysseus, who is beyond all mortals in wisdom, and
     md all has paid sacrifice to the immortal gods,
who hold broad heaven? Nay, it is Poseidon, the
cearth-enfolder, who is ever filled with stubborn wrath.
because of the Cyclops, whom Odysseus blinded of
                             ay upon the verb ὠδύσαο and
       ες      , the latter suggesting the meaning ** man
       1 Seoxix. 409,
                                                         7

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_028>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 70-95
 hiseye—even the godlike Polyphemes, whase might
 is greatest among al the Cyelopes; and the nymph
 Thoosa bore him, daughter” of     Phoreys who rules
 over thie unresting” sea; for in the hollow eaves she
 lay with Poseidon. From that time forth Poseidon,
 the earth-shaker, does not indeed slay Odysseus, but
 Iakes him’a wanderer from bis native land. But
 come, let us who are here all take thought of his
 return, that he may come homes and Poseidon will
 let go his anger, for he will in no wise be able,
‘against all the immortal gods and in their despite,
 to contend alone.
    ‘Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him: “Father of us all, thou son of Cronos, high
above all lords, if indeed this is now well pleasing
to the blessed gods, that the wise Odysseus should
return to his own home, let us send forth Hermes,
the messenger, Argetphontes, to the isle Ogygia,
that with all speed lie may declare to the fair-tressed
nymph oar fixed resolve, even the return of Odys-
seus of the steadfast heart, that he may come home.
Bat, as for me, I will go to Ithaca, that I may the
‘more arouse his son, and set courage in his heart to
call to an assembly the long-haired Achaeans, and
speak out his word to all the wooers, who are ever
slaying his thronging sheep and his sleck* kine of
shambling gait. And I will guide him to Sparta and
to sandy Pylos,toseck tidings of the return of his
dear father, if baply he may hear of it, that good
report may be his among men.”
     λικανisaword of uncertain etymology. ‘Therenderin
given hove onesie with athar”" Oepiundettand ok

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_030>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 96-119
     So she spoke, and bound beneath her feet her
beautiful sandals, immortal golden, which were
wont to bear her both over the waters of the sea and
over the boundless land swift as the blasts of the
wind. And she took her mighty spear, tipped with
sharp bronze, heavy and huge and strong, wherewith
she vanguishes the ranks of men—of warriors, with
whom she is wroth, she, the daughter of the mighty
sire, Then she went darting down from the heights
of Olympus, and took her stand in the land of
Ithaca at the outer gate of Odysseus, on the thresh
old of the cour In her hand she held the spear
of bronze, and she wasin the likeness of a stranger,
Mentes, the leader of the Taphians, There she
found the proud wooers. They were taking their
pleasure at draughts in front of the doors, sitting on
the hides of oxen which they themselves had slain ;
and of the heralds? and busy squires, some were
mixing wine and water for them in bowls, others
again were washing the tables with porous sponges
and setting them forth, while still others were por-
                           abundance.
                         ¢ Telemachus was far the first to
see, for he was sitting among the wooers, sad at
 heart, seeing in thought his noble father, should he
 perchance come from somewhere and make a scat-
 tering of the wooers in the palace, and himself win
 honour and rule over his own house. As he thought
 of these things, sitting among the wooers, he beheld
 ‘Athene, and he went straight to the outer door; for
 in his heart he counted it shame that a stranger
     * Te has seamed  betterthetorender the word κῆρυξ uniformly
 by “herald,”     although       meanings   range from *herald™
             scenes topage”or “henchman”inacenes por-
      battlelio
 ἰδtaying      inthe palace.

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_032>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 120-146
should stand long at the gates. So, drawing near,
he clasped her right hand, and took from hier the
spear of bronze; and he spoke, and addressed her
with winged words:
   “Hail, stranger; in our house thou shaltfind enter
   nment, and then,when thou hast tasted food, thou
shalt tell of what thou hast need.”
   So saying, he led the way, and Pallas Athene fol-
lowed. And when they were within the lofty house,
he bore the spear and set it against a tall pillar in a
polished spear-rack, where were set many spears
besides, even those of Odysseus of the steadfast
heart. ‘Athene herself he led and seated on a chair,
spreading a linen cloth beneath—a beautiful chair,
Hiehly-wrought? and below was a footstool for the
feet. Beside it he placed for himself an inlaid seat,
apart from the others, the wooers, lest the stranger,
vexed by their din, should loathe the meal, seeing
that he was in the company of overweening men}
and also that he might ask him about his father that
‘was gone. ‘Then a handmaid brought water for the
hands in a fair pitcher of gold, and poured it over ἃ
silver basin for them to wash, and beside them drew
up a polished table. And the grave housewife
brought and set before them bread, and therewith
dainties in abundance, giving freely of her store.
‘And a carver lifted up and placed before them
platters of all manner of meats, and set by them
   Iden goblets, while a herald ever walked to aid
 ro pouring them wine.
   ‘Then in came the proud wooers, and thereafter
sat them down in rows on chairs and high seats.
Heralds poured water over their hands, and maid-
                   + Berhaps “carven.”
                                                     τ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_034>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 147-175
servants heaped by them bread in baskets, and youths
filled the bowls brim full of drink; and they put
forth their hands to the             cheer lying read)
ἀν them, "Now after thewooess had pat foo
them the desire of food and drink, their hearts
turned to other things, to song and ‘to dance; for
these things are the erown of a feast, And a herald
put the beautiful lyre in the hands of Phemius, who
sang perforce among the wooers: and he struck the
chords in prelude? to his sweet lay.
   Bat Telemachus spoke to flashing-eyed Athene,
holding his head close, that the others might not
hear: “Dear stranger, wilt thou be wroth with me
for the word that I'shall say? ‘These men care for
things like these, the lyre and song, full easily, seeing.
that without atonement they devour the livelihood
of another, of a man whose white bones, it may be,
rot in the tain as they lie upon the mainland, or the
wave rolls them in the sea, Were theytosee him
retumed to Ithaca, they would all pray to be swifter
of foot, rather than richer in gold and in raiment,
But now he has thus perished by an evil doom, nor
for us is there any comfort, no, not though any’ one
of'men upon the earth should say that he will come;
gone is the day of his returning. But come, tell me
this, and declare it tray. Who art thou among
men, and from whence? Where’ is thy city anc
where thy parents? On what manner of ship didst
thou come, and how did sailors bring thee to Ithaca?
Who did they declare themselves to be? For nowise,
methinks, didst thou come hither on foot. And tell
me this also truly, that I may know full well, whether
this is thy first coming hither, or whether thou art
  Ἢ Or ἀρεβάλλετο may be ured of tho voice: “το he struck
the chord, adte pδὲν τρῶς ine song"

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_036>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 176-202
indeed a friend of my father's house, For many
were the men who came to our house as strangers,
sinee he, too, had gone to and fro among men.””
   ‘Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered.
him: Therefore of a truth will I frankly tell thee
all. I declare that I am Mentes, the son of wise
Anebialus, and Lam lord over the oat-loving Taphians.
‘And now have I put in here, as thou seest, with ship.
‘and crew,  whilesailing over the wine-dark seato men
οἵ strange speech, on my way to Temese for coppers
and I bear with me shining iron, My ship lies yonder
beside the fields away from the city, in the harbour
‘of Rheithron, under woody Neion, 'Friends of one
another do we declare ourselves to be, even as our
fathers were, friends from of old. Nay, if thou wilt,
go and ask the old warrior Laertes, who, they say,
comes no more tothe city,but afurin the fields sulfers
woes attended by an aged woman as his handmaid,
who sets before him food and drink, after weariness
hhas nid hold of his limbs, as he creeps along the
slope of his vineyard plot. And now am I come,
for of a truth men said that he, thy father, was
among his people; but lo, the gods are thwarting
him of his return. 'For not yet has goodly Odysseus
perished on the earth, but still, Iween, he lives and
ἧς held back on the broad sea in a sea-girt isle, and
cruel men keep him, a savage folks, that constrain
nm, haply sore against his will, Nay, I will now
prophesy to thee, as the immortals put it in my heart,
and as Ithink it shall be brought to pass, though 1
fam in no wise ἃ soothsuyer, nor one versed in the


  yout                                        B

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_038>>>
THR ODYSSEY, I. 203-230
signs of birds. Not much longer shall he be absent
from his dear native land, no, not though bonds of
fron hold him. He will contrive a way to return,
for he is a man of many devices. But come, tell re
this and declare it truly, whether indeed, tall as
thou art, thou art the son of Odysseus himself,
Wondrously like his are thy head and beautiful
eyes; for full often did we consort with one an-
other before he embarked for the land of Troy,
whither others, too, the bravest of the Argives, went
in their hollow ships. But since that day neither
have I seen Odysseus, nor he me.”
     hen wise Telemachus answered her: “Therefore
of a truth, stranger, will I frankly tell thee all. My
mother says that I'am his child; but I know not,
for never yet did any man of himself know his own
parentage, Ah, would that I had been the son of
some blest man, whom old age overtook among his
own possessions. But now of him who was the most
‘lated of mortal men they say that 1 am sprang,
since thou askest me of
   ‘Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: “Surely, then, no nameless lineage have the
{gods appointed for thee in time to come, seeing that
Penelope bore thee such as thou art.” But come,
tell me this and declare it truly. What feast, what
throng  isthis? What need hast thou of it?’ Is it
adrinking bout, ora wedding feast? For this plainly
is no meal to which each brings his portion, with
such outrage and overweening dothey seem to me
to be feasting in thy halls. Angered would ἃ man
be at seeing all these’ shamefat acts, any man of
sense who should come among them.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered her: “Stranger,
                                                     19

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_040>>>
3

                  THE ODYSSEY, 1. 231-256
    since indeed thou dost ask and question me of this,
    ‘our house once bade fair to be rich and honourable,
    so long  asthat man wasstillamong his people. But
    now the gods have willed otherwise in their evil
    devising, seeing that they have caused him to
    from sight as they have no other man. For I should
    not so grieve for his death, ifhe had been slain
    among his comrades in the land of the Trojans, or
    had died inthe arms of his friends, when he had
    ‘wound up the skein of war. ‘Then would the whole
    host of the Achaeans have made him a tomb, and
    for his son, too, he would have won great glory in
    ays to come. But as it is, the spirits of the storm?
    have swept him awayandleftno tidings: he is gone
    outof sight, out of hearing, and for me he has left
    anguish and weeping; nor do I in any wise mourn
    and wail for him alone, seeing that the gods have
    Drought upon me other sore troubles. For all the
    princes who hold sway over the islands—Dulichiom
    and Same and wooded Zacynthus—and those who
    lord it over rocky Ithaca, all these woo my mother
    and lay waste my house. And she neither refuses
    the hateful marriage, nor is she able to make an
    end but they with feasting consume my substance:
    exe long they will bring me, too, to rain.”
        Then,stirred toanger, Pallas Athene spoke to'him:
    “Out on it! Thou hast of a truth sore need of
    Odysseus that is gone, that he might put forth his
    hhands upon the shameless wooers. Would that he
    might. come now and take his stand at the outer gate
    of the house, with helmet and shield and two spears,
       1 Tho ἄρκνιαι, oF '*snatchers,” aro in Homer personified
    stormewinds; see xiv. 971; 3x. 61-82:.and Iliad, τὶ. 340.
    They have nothing in commonwithVirgil Harvics (Aen.
                                                             a1

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_042>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 257-282
 such a man as he was when I first saw him in our
 house drinking and making merry, on his way back
 from Ephyre, from the house of Ilus, son of Mermerus.
 For thither, too, went Odysseus in his swift ship in
 search of ἃ deadly drug, that he might have where-
 with to smear his bronze-tipped arrows; yet Ilus
 gave not tohm, for he stood in ame of the gods
 that are forever; but my father gave it, for he held
 him strangely dear, Would, I say, that in such
 strength Odysseus might come amongst the wooers ;
then should they all find swift destruction and bit
 temness in their wooing. Yet these things verily lie
 on the knees of the gods, whether he shall return
and wreak vengeance in his halls, or whether he
shall not; but for thyself, I bid thee take thought
how thou mayest thrust forth the wooers from the
hall. Come now, give ear, and hearken to my words.
On ‘the morrow call to’an assembly the Achaean
lords, and speak out thy word to all, and let the gods
be thy witnesses. As for the wooers, bid them seatter,
each to his own; and for thy mother, if her heart
bids her marry, let her go back to the hall of her
mighty father, and there they will prepare a wedding
feast, and make ready the gifts? fallemany-—aye, all
‘that should follow after a well-loved daughter. And
to thyself will I give wise counsel, if thou wilt
hearken. Man with twenty rowers the best ship
thou hast, and go to seck tidings of thy father, that
has long been gone, if haply any mortal may tell
Dat we must still think of the giftsasbrought by the wooers,
eventhough    theywere eabsqtentiy given to the bride by
   parent, Owing to this diiuley many wcholare reject
line 278 (and ii 197}, and take ofδὲ ofthewooers,not ofthe
Kineolk οἱ Benelope,
                                                         23

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_044>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 1. 283-311
 thee, or thou mayest. hear a voice from Zeus, which
oftenest brings tidings to men. First-go to Pylos
and question goodly Nestor, and from thence to
Sparta to fair-haired Menelaus; for he was the last
to reach home of the brazen-coated Achaeans. If
so be thou shalt hear that thy father is alive and
coming home, then verily, though thou art sore af-
flicted, thou couldst endure for yet a year. But if
thou shalt hear that he is dead arid gone, then return
to thy dear native land and heap up a mound for
him, and over it pay funeral rites, full many as is
‘due, and give thy mother to ἃ husband. ‘Then when
thou hast done’ all this and brought it to an end,
thereafter take thought in mind and heart how thou
mayest slay the wooers in thy halls whether by guile
or openly ;for it beseems thee not to practise childish
‘ways, since thou art no longer of such an age.” Or
hast thou not heard what fame the goodly Orestes
‘won among all mankind when he slew his father’s
murderer, the guileful Aegisthus, for that he slew
his glorious father? ‘Thou too, my friend, for I see
that thou art comely and tall, be thou valiant, that
many an one of men yet to be bom may praise thee.
Bat now I will go down to my swift ship and my
comrades, who, methinks,arechafing mauch at waiting
for me. For thyself, give heed and have regard to
my words.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her: “Stranger,
in truth thou speakest these things with kindly
thought, as a father to his son, and never will 1
forget them. But come now, tarry, eager though
thou art to be gone, in order that when thou hast
bathed and satisfied thy hearttothe full, thou mayest
go to thy ship glad in spirit, and bearing a gift costly
                                                      ᾿ς

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_046>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 312-338
  and very beautiful, which shall be to thee an heir-
  loom from me, even such a gift as dear friends give
  to friends.”
     Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
  him: “Stay me now no longer, when I am eager to
  be gone, and whatsoever gift’ thy heart bids thee
 give me, give it when I come back, to bear to my
 home, choosingaright beautiful one; it shall bring
 thee its worth in return.”
     So spoke the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, and
 departed, flying upward        'asabird; and in hisheart
 she pot strength and courage, and made hicn think
 οἵ his father even more than aforetime. And in his
 mind he marked her and marvelled, for he deemed
 that she was a god; and straightway he went among
 the wooers, a godlike man.
    For them the famous minstrel was singing, and
 they sat in silence listening; and he sang of the
 return of the Achseans—the woeful return from
 ‘Troy which Pallas Athene laid upon them. And
 from her upper chamber the daughter of Tearius,
         Penelope, heard his wondrous song, and she
 went down the high stairway from her chamber, not
 alone, for two handmaids attended her. Now when
 the fair lady had come to the wooers, she stood by
 the doorpost of the well-built hall, holding before
 her face her shining veil; and a faithful handmaid
                                       Then she burst into
 tears, and spoke to the divine minstrel :
    *Bhemius, many other things thon knowest to
 charm mortals, deeds of men and gods which min-
 to be the name of a bird. Others give it the meaning
 ‘Cinvisibly,” and still others render “through the openings
 (Grafintheroot.”
                                                          27


νοι
So

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_048>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 339-364
strels make famous. Sing them one of these, as
thou sittest’here, and let them drink their wine in
silence. But cease from this woeful song which ever
harrows the heart in my breast, for upon me above
all women has come a sorrow not to be forgotten,
So dear a head do I ever remember with longing,
even my husband, whose fame is wide through Hellas
and mid-Argos.”}
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her: “My mother,
why dost thou begrudge the good minstrel to give
pleasure in whatever way his heart is moved? It is
not minstrels that are to blame, but Zeus, I ween,
is to blame, who gives to men that live by toil,? to
each one ashe will. With this man no one can be
vwroth if he sings of the evil doom of the Danaans;
for men praise that song the most which comes the
newest to their ears. For thyself, let thy heart and
soul endure to listen; for not Odysseus alone lost in
Troy the day of his return, but many others likewise
perished. Nay, go to thy chamber, and busy thyself
with thine own tasks, the loom and the distaff, and
bid thy handmaids ply their tasks; but speech shall
be for men, for all, but most of ‘all for me} since
mine is the authority in the house.”
   She then, seized with wonder, went back to her
chamber, for she laid to heart the wise saying of her
son. Up to her upper chamber she went with her
hhandmaids, and then bewailed Odysseus, her dear
husband, until flashing-eyed Athene cast sweet sleep
‘upon her eyelids.
Ὡρ+ The
    feng phrase
          aad   probablyδι
                eh       means
                          ese  no morethan “ throoghost
    Oiler “renter “that live by bread,” and still others
«gain-geting™
                                                      a9

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_050>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 1. 365-392
    But the wooers broke into uproar throughout the
shadowy halls, and all prayed, each that he might lie
byher side. And among them wise Telemachus was
the first to speal
   “Wooers of my mother, overweening in your in-
solence, for the present let us make mery with
Feasting, but let there be no brawling for this is «
goodly thing, to listen to ἃ minstrel such as this man
fs, like to the gods in voice, But in the morning let
us go to the assembly and take our seats, one and all,
that I may declare my word to you outright that you
depart from these halls. Prepare you other feasts,
eating your own substance and changing from house
to house. But if this seems inyour eyes to be a
better and more profitable thing, that one man's live-
hood should be ruined without atonement, waste ye
it, But I will call upon the gods that are forever,
if haply Zeus may grant that deeds of requital may
be wrought. Without atonement, then, should ye
perish within my halls.”
   80 he spoke, and they all bit their lips and mar
velled at Telemachus, for that he spoke boldly.
   ‘Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, answered him:
«Telemachus, verilythegods themselves are teachin,
thee   to be «man of vaunting tongue, and tospesk
with boldness. May the son of Cronos never make
thee king in sea-girt Ithaca, which thing is by birth
thy heritage.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “ Antinous,
wilt thou be wroth with me for the word that I shall
say? Byen this should I be glad     toaccept from the
hand of Zeus. Thinkest thou indeed that this is the
worst fate among men? Nay, it is no bad thing to
beaking. Straightway one’s house grows rich and
                                                     31

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_052>>>
THY ODYSSEY, 1. 393-441
    Ὁ oneself is held in greater honour. However, there
      are other kings of the Achaeans full many in sea
      girt Ithaca, both young and old. One of these hapl
      may have this place, since goodly Odysseus is dead.
      But I will be lord of our own house and of the slaves
      that goodly Odysseus won for me.”
         Then Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered him:
      «Telemachus, this matter verily lies on the knees of
      the gods, who of the Achaeans shall be king in sea-
        rt Ithaca; but as for thy possessions, thou mayest,
      fecep  them thyself, and belord in thine own louse.
      Never may that man come who by violence and
      against thy will shall wrest thy possessions from
      thee, while men yet live in Ithaca, But T am fain,
      good sir, to ask thee of the stranger, whence this
      ‘man comes. Of what land does he declare himself
      to be? Where are his kinsmen and his native
      fields? Does he bring some tidings of thy father's
      coming, or eame he hither in furtherance of some
      matter of his own? How he started up, and was
      straightway gone! Nor did he wait to be known;
      and yet he seemed no base man to look upon.’”
         ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Eury-
      machus, surely my father’s home-coming is lost and
      gone. No longer do I put trust in tidings, whence-
      soever they may come, nor reck I of any prophecy
      which my mother haply may leam of a seer, when
      she has called him tothe hall, But this stranger is
      a friend of my father’s house from Taphos. He
      declares that he is Mentes, son of wise Anchialus,
      and he is lord over the oar-loving Taphians.’
          So spoke ‘Telemachus, but in his heart he knew
      the immortal goddess.
          Now the wooers turned to the dance and to glad-
                                                          33
ὶ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_054>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 422-444
some song, and made them merry, and waited till
evening should come; and as they made merry dark
evening came upon them. ‘Then they went, each
man to his house,    totake their rest. But Telemachus,
where his chamber was built in the beautiful court,
high, in a place of wide outlook, thither went to his
bed, pondering many things in mind; and with him,
bearing blazing torches, went true-hearted Burycleia,
Gaughter of Ops, son ‘of Peisenor. Her long ago
Laertes had bought with his wealth, when she was
in her first youth, and gave for her the price of
twenty oxen; and he honoured her even as he
honoured his faithful wife in his halls, but he never
lay with her in love, for he shunned the wrath of
his wife. She it was who bore for Telemachus the
blazing torches; for she of all the handmaids loved
hhim most, and had nursed him when he was a ehild.
He opened the doors of the well-built chamber, sat
down on the bed, and took off his soft tunic and laid
it in the wise old woman's hands. And she folded
and smoothed the tunic and hung it on u pegbeside
the corded? bedstead, and then went forthfomthe
chamber, drawing the door to by its silver handle,
and driving the bolt home with the thong. So there,
the night through, wrapped in a fleece of wool, he
  jondered in hismind upon the journey which Athene
  jad shewn him.
         4 Possibly *mortised” 5yet neoxxiii.301.



                                                     35

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_056>>>
BOOK       II

  Sox as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
upput from his bed arose thedene son of Odysseus and
       on his clothing. About his shoulder he slung
 his sharp sword, and beneath his shining feet, bound
his fair sandals, and went forth from his chamber
 ike a god to look upon, Straightway he bade the
clear-voiced heraldstosummon to the assembly the
long-haired Achaeans. And the heralds made the
summons, and the Achaeans assembled full quickly.
Now when they were assembled and met together,
Telemachus went his way to the place of assembly,
holding in his hand a spear of bronze—not alone,
for along with him two swift hounds followed ;and
‘wondrous was the grace that Athene shed upon him;
and all the people marvelled at him as he came. But
he sat down in his father’s seat, and the elders gave
place.
    ‘Then among them the lord Aegyptius was the
first. to speak, a man bowed with age and wise with
wisdom untold. Now he spoke, because his dear son
had gone in the hollow ships to Ilius, famed for its
horses, inthe company of godlike Odysseus, even
the warrior Antiphus. But him the savage Cyclops
had slain in his hollow cave, and made of him his
latest meal. ‘Three others there were; one, Eury-
nomus, consorted with the wooers, and two ever kept
                                                    a

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_058>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 23-46
their father's farm. Yet, even so, he could not forget
that other, mourning and sorrowing; and weeping
for him he addressed the assembly, and spoke among
them:
    « Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, to the word
that I shall say. Never have we held assembly or
session since the day when goodly Odysseus departed
in the hollow ships. And now who has called us
together? On whom has such need come either of
the young men or of those who are older? Has he
heard some tidings of the army's return,! which he
might tell us plainly, seeing that he has first learned
of it himself? Or is there some other public matter
‘on which he is to speak and address us? A
‘man he seems in my eyes, a blessed man. May Zeus
fulfil unto him himself some good, even whatsoever
he desires in his heart.”
    So he spoke, and the dear son of Odysseus re-
joiced at the word of omen; nor did he thereafter
remain seated, but was fain to speak. So he took
his stand in the midst of the assembly, and the staf?
was placed in his hands by the herald Peisenor, wise
in counsel. Then he spoke, addressing first the old
man:
    «Old man, not far off, as thou shalt soon learn thy-
self, is that man who has called the host together—
 even I; for on me above all others has sorrow come.
 Thave neither heard any tidings of the army's re-
 turn, which I might tell you plainly, seeing that I
 had first learned of it myself, nor is there any other
 public matter on which I am to speak and address
 you. Nay, it is mine own need, for that evil has
 fallen upon my house in two-fold wise, First,Ihave
 lost my noble sire who was once king among you
        2Or, possibly, “regarding en invading host.” 39

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_060>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Π. 47-74
     here, and was gentle as a father; and now there is
     come an evil yet greater far, which will presently
     altogether destroy my house and rain all my liveli-
     hood, My mother have wooers beset against her will,
     the sons of those men who are here the noblest.
     They shrink from going to the house of her father,
     Tearius, that he may himself exact the bride-gifts for
     his daughter, and give her to whom he will, even
     to him who’ meets his favour, but thronging our
     hhouse day after day they slay our oxen and sheep
    and fat goats, and keep evel, and drink the flaming
    wine recklessly; and havocismade of all this wealth.
     For there is no man here, such as Odysseus was, to
     ward offruinfrom the house. As for me,Iamno wise
    such as he toward itoff. Nay verily, even if I try I
    shall be found a weakling and one knowing naught of
     valour. Yet truly I would defend myself, if I had
     but the power; for now deeds pas ll endaring have
     been wrought, and past all that is seemly has my
     house been destroyed, Take shame opon yourseles,
    ‘and have regard to your neighbours who dwell roand
    ‘about, and fear the wrath of the gods, lest haply
     they turn against you in anger at your evil deeds? I
     pray you by Olympian Zeus, and by Themis who
     looses and gathers the assemblies of men, forbear,
     my friends, and leave me alone to pine ‘in bitter
     grief—unless indeed my father, goodly Odysseus,
     despitefully wrought the well-greaved Achaeans woe,
     in requital whereof ye work me woe despitefully by
     urging these men on, For me it were better that
        ¥ Or, pomibly, Lostinwrath they bring your evil deeds
     ΠῚSour gu hea? “Agolnat this, however, ae xiv, B84
     TS hose words aro addressed apparently to the whole body
     of themenofIthaca, not to the Wooers alone.
                                                           a


4

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_062>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 75-100
ye should yourselves eat up my treasures and my
flocks. If ye were to devour them, recompense
would haply be made some day; for just so long
should we go up and down the city, pressing our
suit and asking back our goods, until all was given
back. But now past cure are the woes ye put upon
my heart.”
    ‘Thus he spoke in wrath, and dashed the staff down
upon the ground, bursting into tears; and pity fell
upon all the people. ‘Then all the others kept silent,
and no man had the heart to answer Telemachus
with angry words. Antinous alone answered him,
and said
    “Telemachus, thou braggart, unrestrained in daring,
what a thing hast thou said, patting us to shame, and
wouldest fain fasten reproach upon us! Nay, Itell
thee, it is not the Achaean wooers who are anywise
at fault, but thine own mother, for she is craity above
all women, For it is now the third year and the
fourth will soon pass,! since she has been deceiving
 the hearts of the Achaeans in their breasts. To
all she offers hopes, and has promises for each man,
 sending them messages, but her mind is set on other
 things. And she devised in her heart this guileful
 thing also: she set up in her halls a great web, and
 fell to weaving—fine of thread was the web and very
 wide and straightway she spoke among us:
    «Young men, my wooers, since goodly Odysseus
 is dead,bepatient, though eager for my marriage,
 until finish this robe—I would not that my spinning
 should come to naught—a shroud for the lord Laertes,
 against the time when the fell fate of grievous? death
 shall strike him down; lest any of the Achacan
        * Others render “ that lays men at their length.”
                                                          43

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_064>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 101-128
        women in the land should be wroth with me, if he,
        who had won great possessions, were to lie without
        shroud.’
           “So she spoke, and our proud hearts consented.
        Then day by day she would weave at the great
        web, but by night would unravel it, when she
        had’ let place torches by her. ‘Thus for three
        years she by her craft kept the Achaeans from
        knowing, and beguiled them; but when the fourth
        year eamne as the seasons rolled on, even then one
        of her women who knew all told us, and we
        caught her unravelling the splendid web. So she
        finished it against her will, perforce. Therefore to
        thee the wooers make answer thus, that thou mayest
        thyself know, it in thine heart, and that all the
        Achaeans may know. Send away thy mother, and
        command her to wed whomsoever her father bids,
        ‘and whoso is pleasing toher. But if she shall con:
        tinue long time to vex the sons of the Achacan:
        mindful in her heart of this, that Athene has en-
        dowed her above other women with knowledge of
        fair handiwork and an understanding heart, and wiles,
        such as we have never yet heard that any even of
        the women of old knew, of those who long ago were
        fair-tressed Achaean women—Tyro and Alemene and
        Mycene of the fair crown—of whom not one was
        like Penelope in shrewd device; yet this at least
        she devised not aright. For so long shall men
        devour thy livelihood and thy possessions, even as
        long as she shall keep the counsel which the gods
        now put in her heart, Great fame she brings on
         herself, but on thee regret for thy much substance.
         For us, we will go neither to our lands nor else-
        whither, until she marries that one of the Achaeans
        whom she will.”                                    i


BRR
 GR
 OREN

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_066>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I 129-154
   Then wise Telemachus answered him, and said:
“Antinous, in no wise may I thrust forth from the
house againsther will her that bore me and reared
me; and, as for my father, he is in some other land,
whether he be alive or dead. An evil thing it were
for me to pay back a great price to Icarius,asI must,
if of my own will I send my mother away. For from
her father’s handshall1 suffer evil, andheaven will
send other ills besides, for my mother as she leaves
the house will invoke the dread Avengers; and I
shall have blame, too, from men. Therefore will I
never speak this word. And for you, if your own
heart is wroth hereat, get you forth from my halls
and prepare you other feasts, eating your own sub-
stance and changing from house to house. But if
this seems in your eyes to be a better and more
profitable thing; that one man’s livelihood should be
ruined without atonement, waste ye it. But I will
call upon the gods that are forever, if haply Zeus
may grant that deeds of requital may be wrought.
Without atonement then should ye perish within my
halls.”
   So spoke Telemachus, and in answer Zeus, whose
voice is borne afar,! sent forth two eagles, fying from
on high, from a mountain peak. For a time they
flew swift as the blasts of the wind side by side with
‘wings outspread ; but when they reached the middle
of the many-voiced assembly, then they wheeled
about, fapping their wings rapidly, and down on the
 neads of all they looked, and death was in their
glare. Then they tore with their talons one another's
cheeks and necks on either side, and darted away to
the right across the houses and the city of the men.
    2The adjective i sometimes rendered “far-seeing.”
                                                      fo

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_068>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 155-182
But they wefe seized with wonder at the birds when
their eyes beheld them, and pondered in their hearts
on what was to come to pass. ‘Then among them
spoke the old lord Halitherses, son of Mastor, for.he
surpassed all men of his day in knowledge of birds and
in uttering words of fate. He with good intent
addressed their assembly, and spoke among them:
   “Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, to the word
that T shall say; and to the wooers especially do I
declare and announce these things, since on them a
great woe is rolling. For Odysseus shall not long be
away from his friends, but even now, methinks, he is,
neat, and fs sowing death and fate for these men,
one and al , Aye, and to many others of us also
who dwell in clear-seen Ittinea will he be a bane.
But long ere that let us take thought how we may
make an end of this—or rather let them of them-
selves make an end,   forthis isstraightway thebetter
course for them. Not as one untried do I prophesy,
but with sure knowledge. For unto Odysseus I
declare that all things are fulfilled even as I told
him, when the Argives embarked for Ilios and with
them went Odysseus of many wiles. I declared that
after suffering many ills and losing all his comrades
he would come home in the twentieth year unknown
to all; and lo, all this is now being brought to
    ‘Then Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered him,
and said: Old man, up now, get thee home and
 prophesy to thy children, lest haply in days to come
 they suffer ill. In this matter I am better far than
 thou to prophesy. Many birds there are that fare
 to and fro under the rays of the sun, and not all are
 fateful. As for Odysseus, he has perished far away,
                                                     49
    vou. αν                                    ο

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_070>>>
FB
              THE ODYSSEY, 11. 183-201
 as I would that thou hadst likewise perished with
 him, “Then wouldst thou not prate so much in thy
treading of signs, or be urging Telemachus on in his
 wrath, hoping for some gift for thy house, if haply
 he shall give it. But I will speak out to thee, and
this word shall verily be broughtto pas . If thou,
‘wise in the wisdom of old, shalt beguile with thy talk
   younger man, and set him on to be wroth, for him
im the first place it shall be the moregrievous, and he
will in no ease be able to do aught because of these
men here, and on thee, old man, will we lay a fine
which it will grieve thy soul to pay, and bitter shall
be thy sorrow, And to Telemachus Γ myself, here
among all, will offer this counsel. His mother let
hhim bid to go back to the house of her father, and
they will prepare a wedding feast and make ready
the gifts full many,—aye, all that. should follow
after a wellloved daughter. For ere that, methinks,
the sons of the Achaeans will not ccase from their
   ‘ievous wooing, since in any case we fear no man—
fo,  not Telemaehs forall his many words~—nor do
we reck of any soothsaying which thou, old man,
mayest declare;it will fail of fulfilment, and thou
shalt be hated the more. Aye, and his possessions
shall be devoured in evil wise, nor shall requital
ever be made, so long as she shall put off the
Achaeans in the matter of her marriage. And we
on our part waiting here day after day are rivals by
reason of her excellence, and go not after other
‘women, whom each one might fitly wed.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Eury-
machus and all ye other lordly wooers,in this matter
Tentreat you no longer nor ὄρεος threo, for now
the gods know it, and all the Achaeans. But come,
                                                     δι

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_072>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 11. 212-239
give mea swift ship and twenty comrades who will
accomplish my journey for me to and fro, For I
shall go to Sparta and to sandy Pylos to seek tidings
afth retum of my father that has long been gone,
if haply any mortal man may tell me, or I may hear
ἃ voice from Zeus, which oRenest brings tidings to
men. If sobe I shall hear that my father is alive
and coming home, then verily, though I am sore
afflicted, [could endure for yet a year. But if I
shall hear that he is dead aad gone, then I will
return to my dear native land and heap up ἃ mound
for him, and over it pay funeral rites, full many, as
is due, and give my mother to a husband.”
   So saying he sat down, and among them ‘rose
Mentor, who was acomrade of noble Odysseus. To
hhim, on departing with his ships, Odysseus had
given all his house in charge, that it should obey
the old man and that he should keep all things safe.
He with good intent addressed their assembly, and
spoke among them :
   “Hearken now to me, men of Ithaea, to the word
that I shall say. Never henceforth let sceptred
   igwith a ready heart be kind and gentle, nor let
  im heed righteousness in his heart, but let him
ever be harsh and work unrighteousness, seeing that
no one remembers divine Odysseus of the people
whose lord he was; yet gentle was he as a father.
But of a truth I begrudge not the proud wooers that
they’ work deeds of violence in the evil contrivings
oftheir minds, for it is at the hazard of their own
lives that they violently devour the house of Odys-
seus, who, they say, will no more retum, Nay,
rather itis with the rest of the folk that Iam wroth,
                                                  53

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_074>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 240-264
 that ye all sit thus in silence, and utter no word of
 rebuke to make the wooers cease, though ye are
 many and they but few.”
    Then Leocritus, son of Euenor, answered him:
 “Mentor, thou mischief-maker,! thou wanderer in
 thy wits, what hast thou seid, bidding men make us
 cease? Nay, it were a hard thing to fight about
 ἃ feast with men that moreover outnumber you,
 For if Ithaean Odysseus himself were to come and
 be eager at heart to drive out from his hall the
 lordly ‘wooers who are feasting in his house, then
 should his wife have no joy at his coming, though
 sorely she longed for him, but right here would he
 meet     ashameful death, if he fought with men that
 outnumbered him.? Thou hast not spoken aright.
 But come now, ye people, scatter, each one of you
 to hisown lands. As for this fellow, Mentor and
 Holitherses will. speed his journey, for they are
 friends of his father’s house from of old, But me-
 thinks he will long abide here and get bis tidings
 in Ithaca, and never accomplish this journey.’
    So he spoke, and hastily broke up the assembly.
 They then scattered, each one to his own house; and
 the wooers went to the house of divine Odysseus.
    But Telemachus went apart to the shore of the
 sea, and having washed his hands in the grey sea-
 water, prayed to Athene: “Hear me, thou who
 didst ‘come yesterday as a god to our house, and
 didst bid me go in a ship over the misty deep to
seek tidings of the return of my father, that has
‘had
{in 245themaylargerfollowing.”withIf dpyando,
                beconstrued’         thisbeadopted,
                                              "Hard thewould
                                                          πἈεύνεσσε
                                                               ie bo
foryou, though you are more in number than we.” As
 Teoria va daft, and denn that Bena’ par

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_076>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 265-293 ,
long been gone. Lo, all this the Achaeans hinder,
but the wooers most of all in their evil insolence.””
    So he spoke in prayer, and Athene drew near to
him in the likeness of Mentor, both in form and in
         ‘and she spoke, and addressed him with winged
    “‘Telemachus, neither hereafter shalt thou be a
base man or a witless, if aught of thy father's goodly
spirit has been instilled into thee, such a man was
he to fulfil both deed and word. So then shall this
joumey of thine be neither vain nor unfulfilled. But
if thou art not the son of him and of Penelope, then
Lhave no hope that thou wilt accomplish thy desire.
Few sons indeed are like their fathers; most are
worse,few betterthan theirfathers. Butsinceneither
hereafter shalt thou be a base man or a witless, nor
has the wisdom of Odysseus wholly failed thee, there
{s therefore hope that thou wilt accomplish this work.
 Now then let be the will and counsel of the wooers—
 fools, for they are in no wise either prudent or just,
nor do they know aught of death or black fate, which
 verily is near at hand for them, that they shall all
 perish in a day. But for thyself, the journey on
 which thy heart is set shall ποῦ be long delayed, s0
 true afriend of thy father’s house am I, who will
 equip for thee a swift ship, and myself go'with thee.
 But go thou now to the house and join the company
 ‘of the wooers ;make ready stores, and bestow all in
 vessels—wine in jars, and barley meal, the marrow
 of mep, in stout ‘skins;—but 1, going’ through the
 town, will quickly gather comrades that gowillingly.
 ‘And ships there are full many in sea-girt Ithaca,
 both new and old; of these will I choose out for
 thee the one that is best, and quickly will we make
 her ready and launch her on the broad deep.”
                                                      57

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_078>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 296-322
   So spoke Athene, daughter of Zeus, nor did Tele-
machus tarry long after he had heard the voice of
the goddess, but went his way to the house, his
heart heavy within him. He found there the proud
wooers in the halls, flaying goats and singeing swine
in the court, And Antinous with a laugh came
straight to Telemachus, and clasped his hand, and
spoke, and addressed» him :
   “Telemachus, thou braggart,. unrestrained in
daring, let no more any evil deed or word be in
thy heart. Nay, I bid thee, eat and drink even as
before. All these things the Achneans will surely
provide for thee—the ship and chosen oarsmen—
that with speed thou mayest go to, sacred Pylos to
seek for tidings of thy noble father.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered him: “ Antinous,
ἴα no wise is it possible for me in your overweening
companytosit at meat quietly and to make merry
with an easy mind. Is it not enough, ye wooers,
that in time past ye wasted many goodly possessions
of mine, while I was stilachid ὁ But now that [am
    wn, and gain knowledge by hearing the words of
Gthers, yea and my spirit waxes within me, [wilt
how 1 may hurl forth upon you evil fates, either
goingtoPylos or here in this land. For go I will,
nor shall the journey be in vain whereof I speak,
though I voyage in another's ship, since I may not
be master ofship or oarsmen. So, I ween, it seemed
to you to be more to your profi
  Hespoke, and snatched his hand from the hand
of Antinous without more ado, and the wooers were
busy with the feast throughout the hall. They
  uivelenttoit, In ἃ number of pesages, however, tho
ποτὰ iefreely ted, and {thas seemed beettodopt ἃ render
fog which wuts all, ornearly all, cases,             Ss

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_080>>>
+     THE ODYSSEY, I. 323-351
  mocked and jeered at him in their talk; and thus
  ‘would one of the proud youths speak:
      “Aye, verily Telemachus is planning our murder.
  He will bring men to aid him from sandy Pylos or
_ even from Sparta, so terribly is he set upon it, Or
  he means to goto Ephyre, that rich land, to bring
  from thence deadly drugs, that he may cast them in
  the wine-bowl, and destroy us all.”
      ‘And again another of the proud youths would
  say: “Who knows but he himself as he goes on
  the hollow ship may perish wandering far from his
  friends, even as Odysseus did? So would he cause
  us yet more Iabour; for we should have to divide
  all “his possessions, and his house we should give
  te bis mother to postes, and to him who should
  wed her.”
      So they spoke, but Telemachus went down to the
  high-roofed treasure-chamber of his father, a wide
  room where gold and bronze lay piled, and raiment
  in chests, and stores of fragrant oil. There, too,
  stood great jars of wine, old and sweet, holding with-
  in them an unmixed divine drink, and ranged in
  order along the wall, if ever Odysseus should return
  home even after many grievous toils. Shut were
  the double doors, close-fitted; and there both night
  and day # stewardess abode, who guarded all in
  wisdom of mind, Enryéleia, daughter of Ops, son of
  Peisenor. To her now Telemachus, when he had
  called her to the treasure-chamber, spoke, and
  said
     “Nurse, draw me off wine in jars, sweet wine that,
  is the choicest next to that which thou guardest ever
  thinking upon that ill-fated one, if haply Zeus-born
  Odysseus may come I know not whence, having
                                                      δι

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_082>>>
THE ODYSSEY, I. 352-379
 escaped from death and the fates. Fill twelve jars
 and fit them all with covers, and pour me barley
 meal into well-sewn skins, and let there be twenty
‘measures of ground barley meal. But keep know-
 edge hereof to thyself, and have all these things
brought together; for at evening I will fetch them,
 when my mother goes to her upper chamber and
 bethinks her of her rest. For Iam going to Sparta
and to sandy Pylos to seek tidings of the return of
 my dear father, if haply I may hear any.”
   ‘So he spoke, and the dear nurse, Euryelefa, uttered
ashrillery, and weeping spoke to him winged words:
 “Ah, dear child, how has this thought come into
 thy mind? Whither art thou minded to go over
 the wide earth, thou who art. an only son and well-
beloved? But he hath perished far from his country,
 the Zeus-born Odysseus, in a strange land; and
 these men, so soon as thou art gone, will devise evil
for thee hereafter, that thou mayest perish by guile,
tm themselves divide all thess possessions, “Nay,
abide here in charge of what is thine; thou hast no
need to suffer ills and go a wanderer over the un-
resting sea.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered her: “Take
heart, nurse, for not without ἃ god’s warrant is this
my pian. But swear to tell naught of this to my
dear mother until the eleventh or twelfth day shall
come, or until she shall herself miss me and hear
that Iam gone, that she may not mar her far flesh
with weeping.”
   So he, spoke, and the old woman swore great
oath by the gods to say naught. But when she had
sworn and made an end of the oath, straightway she
ἄτονν for him wine’in jars, and poured barley meal
                     :                               63

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_084>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 380-407
into wellsewn skins; and Telemachus went to the
hall and joined the company of the wooers.
   Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. In the likeness of ‘Telemachus she
went everywhere throughout the city, and to each
of the men she drew near and spoke her word,
bidding them gather at even beside the swift ship.
Furthermore, of Noemon, the glorious son ofPhiroutas,
she asked a swift ship, and he promised it to her
with a ready heart.
   Now the sun set and all the ways grew dark,
‘Then she drew the swift ship to the sea and put
in it all the gear that well-benched ships carry.
And she moored it at the mouth of the harbour,
‘and round about it the goodly companywasgathered
together, and the goddess heartened each man.
    Then again the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene,
took other counsel. "She went her way to the house
ofdivine Odysseus, and there began to shed sweet
sleep upon the wooers and made them to wander in
thelr drinking, and from their hands she east, the
cups. But they rose to go to their rest throughout
the city, and remained ve long time seated, for sleep
‘was falling upon their eyelids. But to Telemachus
spoke flashing-eyed Athene, cal ing him forth before
the stately hall, having likened herself to Mentor
both in form and in voice:
   “Telemachus, already thy well-greaved comrades
sit at the oar and await thy setting out. Come, let
us go, that we may not long delay their journey.”
    So saying, Pallas Athene led the way quickly,
and he followed in the footsteps of the goddess.
 Now when they had come down to the ship and to
                                                  65

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_086>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 408-434
 the sea, they found on the shore their Ipng-haired
 comrades, and the strong and mighty! Telemachus
 spoke among them:
    “Come, friends, let us fetch the stores, for all are
now gathered together in the hall. My mother
knows naught hereof, nor the handmaids either :
one only heard my word.”
       ‘Thus saying, he led the way, and they went along
with him. So they brought and stowed everything
in the well-benched ship,asthe dear son of Odysseus
bade.       ‘Then on board the ship stepped Telemachus,
Stern ofthethemenship,loosedand thenearsternher cables
and Athene went before him and sat down in the

while
                                                  sat Telemachus,
                                                       and them-
selves stepped on board, and sat down upon the
benches. And flashing-eyed Athene sent them a
favourable wind, a strong-blowing West wind that
sang over the winedark sea. And Telemachus
called to his men, and bade them lay hold of the
tackling, and they hearkened to his call. The mast
τρις it fast with fore-stays,and hauled up the white
of fir they raised and set in the hollow socket, and


filed the bal of the dad the ἄοῆς ψανε wne
sail with twisted thongs of ox-hide. So the wind

loudly about the stem of the ship as she went, and
fis   Gee wre oae wate comeing fastYee,
‘Then, when they had made the tackling          in the
swift black ship, they set forth bowls brim full of
fri,   κοὰ ρουικὰ ons tx lbp ἰδναιοτίαὶ κοᾶς
that are forever, and chiefest of all to the flashing-
eyed daughter of Zeus. So all night long and throug!
the dawn the ship cleft her way.
toon         Rterene to tkescnctity sidcngYosoyasation
                                                               67

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_088>>>
Ἕ            ΒΟΟΚ      ΠῚ

    ΑΝ now the sun, leaving the beauteous mere,
sprang up into the brazen heaven to give light to
 the immortals and to mortal men on the earth, the
 giver of grain; and they came to Pylos, the well-
 Duiltcitadelof Neleus. “Here the townsfolk on the
shore of the sea were offering sacrifice of black bulls
 to the dark-haired Earth-shaker. Nine companies
 there were, and five hundred men sat in each, and
 in each they held nine bulls ready for sactifice.
 Now when they had tasted the inner parts and were
burning the thigh-pieces to the god, the others put
straight in to the shore, and hauled up and furled
the sail of the shapely ship, and moored her, and
themselves stepped forth. Forth too from the shi
stepped Telemachus, and Athene led the way. An
the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, spake first to
him, and sai
   “'Telemachus, no longer hast thou need to feel
shame, no, not a whit. For to this end hast thou
sailed over the sea, that thou mightest seek tidings
of thy father,—where the earth covered him, and
what fate he met. But come now, go straightway
to Nestor, tamer of horses ; let us learn what counsel
he keepeth hid in his breast. And do thou beseech
hhim thyself that he may tell thee the very truth. A
lie will he not utter, for he is wise indeed.”
                                                    69

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_090>>>
THE ODYSSEY, III. 21-50
   Then wise Telemachus answered her: “Mentor,
how shall I go, and how shall I greet him? I am
as yet all unversed in subtle speech, and moreover a
young man has shame to question an elder.”
   Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: “Telemachus, somewhat thou wilt of thyself
devise in thy breast, and somewhat heaven too will
prompt thee. For, methinks, not without τὰ
favour of the gods hast thou been born and reared.’
   So spake Pallas Athene, and led the way quickly:
but he followed in the footsteps of the goddess; and
they came to the gathering and the companies of
the men of Pylos. ‘There Nestor sat with his sons,
and round about his people, making ready the feast,
‘were roasting some of the meat and putting other
pieces on spits. But when they saw the strangers
they all came thronging aboutthem, and clasped their
hands in welcome, and bade them sit down, First
Nestor's son Peisistratus came near and took both by
‘the hand, and made them to sit down at the feast
on soft ficeces upon the sand of the sea, beside his
brother Thrasymedes and his father. Thereupon he
gave them portions of the inner meat and poured
wine in a golden eup, and, pledging her, he spoke to
Pallas Athene, daughter of Zeus who bears the ae;
   «Pray now, stranger, to the lord Poseidon, for his
is the feast whereon you have chanced in ‘comin,
hither. And when thou hast poured libations anc
hast prayed, as is fitting, then give thy’ friend also
the cup of hhoney-sweet wine that he may pour,
since he too, I ween, prays to the immortals; for all
men have need of the gods. Howbeit he’ is the
younger, oflike age with myself, wherefore to thee
first will I give the golden cup.””
                                                    τ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_092>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Π|. 51-76
   So he spake, and placed in her hand the cup of
sweet wine, But Pallas Athene rejoiced at the
man’s wisdom and judgment, in that to her first
he gave the golden cup; and straightway she prayed
earnestly to the lord Poseidon:
   “Hear me, Poseidon, thou Earth-enfolder, and
grudge not in answer to our prayer to bring these
deeds to fulfillment. To Nestor, first of all, and to
his sons vouchsafe renown, and ‘then do thou grant
to the rest gracious requital for this glorious heea-
tomb, even to all the men of Pylos; and grant
furthermore that Telemachus and I may retum
when we have accomplished all that for which we
came hither with our swift black ship.”
   Thus she prayed, and was herself fulfilling all.
Then she gave Telemachus the fair two-handledi
cup, and in like manner the dear son of Odysseus
prayed. ‘Then when they had roasted the outer
flesh and drawn it off the spits, they divided the
portions and feasted ἃ glorious feast.            But when
‘they had put from them the desire of food and
Arn, the horseman, Nestor ofGerenia spoke fist
among them:
   “Now verily is it seemlier to ask and enquire of
the strangers who they are, since now they have
had their joy of food. Strangers, who are ye?
Whence do ye sail over the watery ways? Is it on
some business, or do ye wander at random over the
sea, even as pirates, who wander hazarding their
lives and bringing evil to men of other lands?”
   ‘Then wise ‘Telemachus took courage, and made
answer, for Athene herself put courage in his heart,
   2Others, “double cup, 4. shaped like an hourglass
    4 The preciso meaning of ἃ plthet ia quite usksown.
                                                         13

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_094>>>
THE ODYSSEY, III. 77-104
 that he might ask about his father that was gone,
 and that good report might be his among men :
   “«Nestor, son of Neleus, greatgloryof the Achaeans,
 thou askest whence we are, and I will surely tell
 thee. We have come from Ithaca that is below
 Neion; but this business whereof I speak is mine
 ‘own, and concerns not the people. I come after
 the wide-spread rumour of my father, if haply I
 may hear of it, even of         goodly Odysseus of the
 steadfast heart; who once, men, say, fought by thy
 side and sacked the city of the Trojans. For of all
men else, as many as warred with the Trojans, we
learn where each man died a woeful death, but of
hhim the son of Cronos has made even the death to
bbe past learning; for no man ean tell surely where
he hath died—whether he was overcome by foes on
the mainland, or on the deep among the waves of
Amphitrite. ‘Therefore am I now come to thy
knees, if perchance thou wilt be willing to tell me
of his woeful death, whether thou sawest it haply
with thine own eyes, or didst hear from some other
the story of his wanderings; for beyond all men
did his mother bear him to sorrow. And do thou
nowise out of rath or pity for me speak soothing
words, but tell me truly how thou didst come to
behold him. I beseech thee, if ever my father,
noble Odysseus, promised aught to thee of word oF
deed and falflicd it in the land of the Trojans,
where you Achaeans suffered woes, be mindful of it
now, I’pray thee, and tell me the very trath.””
   ‘Then the horseman, Nestor of Gerenia, answered
him: “My friend, since thou hast recalled to my
mind the sorrow which we endured in that land, we
           2Or, *from somo other wanderer.”
                                                     15

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_096>>>
THE ODYSSEY, {Π|ν 105-133
  sons of the Achaeans, unrestrained in daring,—all
  that we endured on shipboard,, as we roamed after
  booty over the misty deep whithersoever Achilles
  led ; and all-our fightings around the great city of
  king Priam;—lo, there all our best were slain
* There lies “warlike Aias, there Achilles, there
  Patroclus, the peer of the gods in counsel; and
  there my own dear son, strong alike and peerless,
  Antilochus, pre-eminent in speed of foot and as ἃ
  ‘warrior, Aye, and many other ills we suffered
  besides these; who of mortal men could tell them
  all? Nay, if for five years’ space or six years’ space
  thou wert to abide here, and ask of all the woes
  which the goodly Achaeans endured there, thou
  wouldest grow weary ere the end and get thee back
  to thy native land, For nine years’ space were we
  busied plotting their ruin with’ all manner of wiles ;
  ‘and hardly aid the son of Cronos bring it to pass.
  There no man ventured to vie with-him in counsel,
  since goodly Odysseus far excelled in all manner of
  wiles—thy father, if indeed thou art his son.
  Amazement holds meas Ilook on thee, for verilythy
  speechislike his; nor would one thinkthata younger
  man would speak so like him. Now all the time
  that we were there goodly Odysseus and I never-
  spoke at variance either in the assembly or in the
  council, but being of one mind advised the Argives
  with wisdom and shrewd counsel how all might be
  for the best. But when we had sacked the lofty
  city of Priam, and had gone away in our ships, and
  ἃ god had scattered the Achaeans, then, even then,
  Zeus planned in his heart a woeful return for the
  Argives, for in no wise prudent or just were all.
                                                    1

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_098>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Π]. 134-162
Wherefore many of them met an evil fate through
the fell wrath of the flashing-eyed goddess, the
daughter of the mighty sire, for she caused strife
between the two sons of Atreus. Now these two
called to an assembly all the Achaeans, recklessly
and in no due order, at set of sun—and they came
heavy with wine, the sons of the Achaeans,—and
they spoke their word, and told wherefore they had
gathered the host together. Then in truth Menelaus
bade all the Achaeans think of their return over the
broad back of the sea, but in no wise did he please
Agamemnon, for he was fain tohold back the host
and to offer holy hecatombs, that he might appease
the dread wrath of Athene,—fool! nor knew he
this, that with her was to be no hearkening; for the
mind of the gods that are forever is not. quickly
turned. So these two stood bandying harsh words ;
but the well-greaved Achaeans sprang up with a
wondrous din, and two-fold plans found favour with
them. That night we rested, each side pondering hard
thoughts against the other, for Zeus was bringing
upon us an evil doom, but in the morning some of us
launched our ships upon the bright sea, and put on
board our goods and the low-girdled women. Half,
indeed, of the host held back and remained there
with Agamemnon, son of Atreus, shepherd of the
host, but half of us embarked and rowed away; and
swiftly the ships sailed, for a god made smooth the
cavernous sea, But when we came to Tenedos, we
offered sacrifice to the gods, being eager to reach our
homes, howbeit Zeus did not yet purpose our return,
stubborn god, who roused evil strife again a second
time, Then some turned back their curved ships
                                                  19

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_100>>>
THE ODYSSEY, UL. 163-191
and departed, even the lord Odysseus, the wise and
crafty-minded, with his company, once more showing
favourtoAgamemnon, son of Atreus; but I with the
full company of ships that followed me fled on, for I
knew that the god was devising evil. And the war-
like son of Tydeus fled and urged on his men; and
late upon our track came fair-haired Menelaus, and
overtook us in Lesbos, as we were debating the long
voyage, whether we should sailto sea-ward of rugged
Chios, toward the isle Psyria, keeping Chios itself!
on our left, or to land-ward’ of Chios past windy
Mimas. So we asked the god to shew us ἃ sign,
and he shewed it us, and bade us cleave through
the midst of the sea to Euboea, that we might the
soonest eseape from misery. “And a shrill wind
sprang up to blow, and the ships ran swiftly over
   8 teeming ways, and at night put in to Geraestus.
‘There on the altar of Poseidon we laid many thighs
of bulls, thankful to have traversed the great sea.
Tt was the fourth day when in Argos the company
of Diomedes, son of Tydeus, tamer of horses, stayed
their shapely ships; but I held on toward Pylos, and
the wind was not once quenched from the time
when the god first sent it forth to blow.
    “Thus I came, dear child, without tidings, nor
know I aught of those others, who of the Achaeans
were saved, and who were lost. But what tidings
 Thave heard as I abide in our halls thou shalt hear,
as is right, nor will I hide it from thee, Safely,
they say, came the Myrmidons that rage withthe
spear, whom the famous son of    great-hearted Achilles
led ; and safely Philoctetes, the glorious son of Poias.
 All his company, too, did Idomeneus bring to Crete,
     *Pomsibly, “keoping the isle (Ps on our let.”
                                                      &r
    vou αν                                     >

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_102>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IIL. 192-218
all who escaped the war, and the sea robbed him of
none, But of the son of Atreus you have yourselves
heard, far of though you are, how he came, and
how Aegisthus devised for him a woeful doom. Yet
verily he paidthe reckonitig therefor in terrible
wise,s0good a thing is it that a son be left behind
‘aman at his death, since that son took vengeance
on his father's slayer, the guileful Aegisthus, for
that he slew his glorious father. ‘Thou, too, friend,
for I see thou art a comely man and tall, be thou
valiant, that many an one among men yet to be born
‘may praise thee.”
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Nestor,
son of Neleus, great glory of the Achaeans, yea
verily that son took vengeance, and the Achacans
shall spread his fame abroad, that men who are yet
to be may hear thereof ὁ that the gods would
clothe me with such strength, that I might take
vengeance on the wooers for their grievous sin, who
in wantonness devise mischief against me. But lo,
the gods have spun for me no such happiness, for
me or for my father; and now 1 must in any case
endure.”
    Then the horseman, Nestor of Gerenia, answered
him: “Friend, since thou calledst this to my mind
‘and didst speak of it, they say that many wooers for
the hand of thy mother devise evils in thy halls
in thy despite, Tell me, art thou willingly thos
oppressed, or do the people throughout the land
hate thee, following the voice of a god? Who
knows but Odysseus may some day come and take
vengeance on them for their violent deeds-—he
alone, it may be, or even all the host of. the
‘Achaeans? Ah, would that flashing-eyed Athene
                                                   83

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_104>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Ill. 219-243
    ight choose to love thee even as then she cared
exceedingly for glorious Odysseus in the land ot
the Trojans, where we Achaeans suffered woes.
For never yet have T seen the gods go manifestly
shewing love, as Pallas Athene did to him, standing
manifest by his side. If she would be pleased to
love thee in such wise and would care for thee at
heart, then would many an one of them utterly
forget marriage.”
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him : “Ola man,
{in no wise do I deem that this word will be brought
to pass. Too great is what thou sayest; amazement
holds me. No hope have I that this will come to
pass, no, not though the gods should so will it.”
    Then ’the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, spoke
to him, and said: “Telemachus, what a word has
escaped the barrier of thy teeth! Easily might ἃ
‘god who willed it bring a man safe home, even from
afar, But for myself, I had rather endure many
grievous toils ere I reached home and saw the day
‘of my returning, than after my return be slain at,
my hearth, as Agamemnon was slain by the guile of
Aegisthus and of his own wife. But of a truth
cath that is common to all} the gods themselves
cannot ward from a man thev lave, when the fell
fate of grievous death shall strixe iim down.”
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her: “Mentor,
no longer let us tell of these things despite our grief
 For him no return can ever more be brought to
               ere this the immortals have devised for
         nay, and
 pass; death
 him               black fate. But now I would make
 enguity and ask Nestor regarding another matter,
‘waror strife. Some would read dasler, “bancfel, destruo-
 tive.”
                                                       85

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_106>>>
THE ODYSSEY, III. 244-270
sinee beyond all others he knows judgments and
wisdom ;for thrice, men say, has he Deen king for a
generation of men, and like unto an immortal he
seems to me to look upon. Nestor, son of Neleus,
do thou tell me truly: how was the son of Atreus,
wide-ruling Agamemnon, slain? Where was Mene-
lous? What death did guileful Aegisthus plan for
the king, since he slew a man mightier far than
himself?’ Was Menelaus not in Achaean Argos,
but wandering elsewhere among men, so that
Aegisthus took heart and did the murderous deed?””
   ‘Then the horseman, Nestor of Gerenia, answered
him: “Then verily, my child, will I tell thee all the
truth. Lo, of thine own self thou dost guess how
this matter would have fallen out, if the son of
Atreus, fairshaired Menelaus, on his return from
Troy had found Aegisthus in his halls alive. Then
for him not even in death would they have piled
the up-piled earth, but the dogs and birds would
have torn him as he lay on the plain far from the
city, nor would any of the Achaean women have
bewailed him; for monstrous was the deed he
devised, We on our part abode there in Troy ful-
filling our many toils; but he, at ease in a nook of
horse-pasturing Argos, ever sought to beguile with
words the wife of Agamemnon. Now at the first
she put from her the unseemly deed, the beautiful
Clytemnestra, for she had an understanding heart ;
‘and with her was furthermore a minstrel whom the
son of Atreus straitly charged, when he set forth
for the land of Troy, to guard his wife. But when
at length the doom of the gods bound her that
she should be overcome, then verily Aegisthus took
                                                87

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_108>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il, 271-297
 the minstrel to a desert isle and left him to be the
 prey and spoil of birds; and her, willing as he was
 willing, he led to his own house. And many thigh-
 pieces he burned upon the holy altars of the gods,
and many offerings he hung up, woven stuffs and
gold, since he had accomplished a mighty deed
 beyond all his heart had hoped.
    ‘Now we were sailing together on our way from
 Troy, the son of Atreus and I,in all friendship; but
 when we came to holy Sunium, the eape of Athens,
 there Phoebus Apollo assailed with his gentle!
shafts and slew the helmsman of Menelaus, as he
held in his hands the steering-oar of the speedin,
ship, even Phrontis, son of Onetor, who excell
the tribes of men in piloting a ship when the storm
winds blow strong. So Menelaus tarried there,
though eager for his journey, that he might bury
his comrade and over him pay funeral rites. But
when he in his turn, as he passed over the wine-
dark sea in the hollow ships, reached in swift
course the steep height of Malea, then verily Zeus,
 whose voice is borne afar, planned for him a hateful
 path and poured upon him the blasts of shrill winds,
 and the waves were swollen to huge size, like unto
 mountains. Then, parting his ships in twain, he
 brought some toCrete, where the Cydonians dwelt
 about the streams of Iardanus. Now there is a
 smooth elif, sheer towards the sea, on the border
 of Gortyn in the misty deep, where the South-
 west Wind drives the great wave against the head-
 land on the left toward Phaestus, and    alittle rock
 holds back a great wave. Thither came some of
 his ships, andthe men with much ado escaped
   + A gentle, painloas death wasthought tobedue to
Apollo shafta”                       ν              a

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_110>>>
THE ODYSSRY, ΠῚ. 298-325
destruction, howbeit the ships the waves dashed
to pieces against the reef. But the five other dark-
prowed ships the wind, as it bore them, and the
wave brought to Egypt. So he was wandering
there with his ships among men of strange speech,
gathering much livelihood and gold; but mean-
while Aegisthus devised this woeful work at home.
Seven years he reigned over Mycense, rich in
gold, after slaying the son of Atreus, and the
people were subdued under him ;but in the eighth
came as his bane the goodly Orestes back from
Athens, and slew his father’s murderer, the guilefal
‘Aegisthus, for that he had slain his glorious father.
Now when he had slain him, he made a funeral
feast for the Argives over his hateful mother and
the craven Aegisthus; and on the self-same day
there came to him Menelaus, good at, the war-ery,
bringing much treasure, even all the’ burden that
his ships could bear.
   So do not thou, my friend, wander long far from
home, leaving thy wealth behind thee and men
in thy house so insolent, lest they divide and devour
all thy wealth, and thou shalt have gone on a fruit-
less journey. But to Menelaus I bid and command
thee to go, for he has but lately come from a strange
land, from’a folk whence no one would hope in his
hearttoreturn, whom the storms had once driven
astray into a sea so great, whence the very birds do
not fare in the space of a year, so great is it and
terrible. But now go thy way with thy ship and
thy comrades, o, if thou wilt go by land, here are
chariot and horses at hand for thee, and here at thy
service are my sons, who will be thy guidestogoodly
                                                   οι

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_112>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IL. 326-353
Lacedaemon, where lives fair-haived Menelaus. And
do thou beseech him thyself that he may tell thee
the very truth. A Ie will he not utter, for he is
wise indeed.”
   So he spoke, and the sun set, and darkness came
on, Then among them spoke the goddess, flashing
eyed Athene: “Old man, of a truth thou hast told
   i                But come, eut out the tongues of
                ἃ mix the wine, that when we have
poured libations to Poseidon and the other im-
mortals, we may bethink us of sleep; for it is the
time thereto. Even now has the light gone down
beneath the darkness, and it is not fitting to sit
Jong, at the feast of the gods, but to go our
   So spoke the daughter of Zeus, and they hearken-
ened to her voice. Heralds poured water over their
hands, and youths filed the bowls brim full of drink,
and served out to all, pouring frst drops for libation
into the cups. Then they cast the tongues upon
the fire, and, rising up, poured libations upon them.
But when they had poured libations and had drunk
to their heart's content, then verily Athene and
godlike Telemachus were both fain to return to the
hollow ship; but Nestor on his part sought to stay
them, and he spoke to them, saying:
    “This may Zeus forbid, and the other immortal
gods, that ye should go from my house to your swift
ship asfromone utterly without raiment and poor,
who has not cloaks and blankets in plenty in his
house, whereon both he and his guests may sleep
softly. Nay, in my house there are cloaks and fair
blankets. Never surely shall the dear son of this
man Odyéseus lie down upon the deck of a ship,
                                                    93

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_114>>>
THE ODYSSEY, II. 354-378
while I yet live and children after me are left in
my halls to entertain strangers, even whosoever
shall come to my house.”
    ‘Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: “Well indeed hast thou spoken in’ this, old
friend, and it were fitting for Telemachus to hesrken
to thee, since it is far better thus. But while he
shall now follow        with thee, that he may sleep in
thy halls, I for my part will go to the black ship,
that I may hearten my comrades and tell them all.
For alone among them I declare that I am an older
‘man; the others are younger who follow in friend
ship, all of them of like age with great-hearted
‘Telemachus, There will I lay me down by the
hollow black ship this night, but in the morning I
will go to the great-hearted Cauconians, where a
debtisowing tome,in no wise new or small. But
do thou send this man on his way with a chariot
and with thy son, since he has come to thy house,
and give him horses, the flectest thou hastinrunning
‘and the best in strength.”
    So spoke the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, and
she departed in the likeness of a sea-eagle; and
amazement fell upon all at the sight, and the old
man marvelled, when his eyes beheld it. And he
grasped the hand of Telemachus, and spoke, and
addressed him:
    “Friend, in no wise do I think that thou wilt
prove a base man or a craven, if verily when thou
art s0 young the gods follow thee to be thy guides.
For truly this is none other of those that have their
dwellings on Olympus but the daughter she           of Zeus,
Tritogeneia,’ the maid most glorious,                    that
“Teiton-born,”         ‘with    reference to an actual stream
of that name {inBoeotn or Thensely),                        a

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_116>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Il. 39-404
 honoured also thy noble father among the Argives.
 Nay, O Queen, be gracious, and grant to me fair
renown, to me and to my sons and to my revered
wife; and tothee in return will I sacrifice ἃ sleek!
heifer, broad of brow, unbroken, which no man hath
fetled beneath the yoke. Her will Tsacrfee, and
    Will overlay her horas with gold.
      So he spoke in prayer, and Pallas Athene heard
him, ‘Then the horseman, Nestor of Gerenia, led
them, his sons and the husbands of his daughters,
to his beautiful palace. And when they reached
the glorious palace of the king, they sat down in
rows on the chairs and high seats; and on their
coming the old man mixed for them a bowl of
sweet wine, which now in the eleventh year the
housewife opened, when she had loosed the string
that held the lid.” Thereof the old man bade mix
a bowl, and earnestly he prayed, as he poured
libations, to Athene, the daughter of Zeus who
bears the aegis.
     Bat when they had poured libations, and had
drunk to their heart’s content, they went, each to
his home, to take their rest. "But the horseman,
Nestor of Gerenia, bade Telemachus, the dear son
of divine Odysseus, to sleep there on a corded
bedstead under the echoing portico, and by him
Peisistratus, of the good ashen spear, a leader of
men, who among his sons was still unwed in the
    ace. But he himself sleptin the inmost chamber
of the lofty house, and beside him lay the ledy his
‘wife, who had strewn the couch.
    Soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
renderScholars
   ὁ.           generally
         ἥνιν one          fllow The
                     year old.”  the ancient
                                     meaning commentators,  and
                                               " sleek” was #ug-
gested by Goobel, whom Ameis follows,
                                                              97

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_118>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IIL. 405-429
up from his bed rose the horseman, Nestor of
Gerenia, and went forth and sat down on the
polished stones which were before his lofty doors,
white and glistening as with oil! On these of old
was wont to sit Neleus, the peer of the gods in
counsel; but he ere this had been stricken by fate
and had gone to the house of Hades, and now there
sat upon them in his tum Nestor of Gerenia, the
warder of the Achacans, holding a sceptre in his
hands. About hin_ his sons gathered in ἃ throng
as they came forth from their chambers, Echephron
and Stratius and Perseus and Arctus and godlike
‘Thrasymedes; and to these thereafter came as the
sixth the lord Peisistratus. And they led godlike
Telemachus and made him sit beside them; and
the horseman, Nestor of Gerenia, was first to speak
among ther
    “Quickly, my dear children, fulfil my desire, that
first of all the gods I may propitiate Athene, who
came to me in manifest presence to the rich feast of
the god. Come now, let one go to the plain for a
heifer, that she may come speedily, and that the
neatherd may drive her; and let one go to the
lack ship of great-hearted Telemachus and bring
all his comrades, and let him leave two men only;
and let one again bid the goldsmith Laérees come
hither, that he may overlay the heifer’s horns vith
gold. 'And do ye others abide here together; and
bid the handmaids within to make ready a feast
throughout our glorious halls, to fetch seats, and
logs to set on either side of the altar, and to bring
clear water.”
      SoEustatius   and tho scholia, Others think of « wash
or ἃstucco, covering the stones.
                                                         99

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_120>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Ul. 430-454
   So he spoke, and they all set busily to work.
The heifer came from the plain, and from the swift,
shapely ship came the comrades of great-hearted
‘Telemachus; the smith came, bearing in his hands
his tools of bronze,theimplements of his eraft, anvil
and hammer and well-made tongs, wherewith he
wrought the gold; and Athene came to accept
the sacrifice. "Then the old man, Nestor, the
river of chariots, gave gold, and the smith pre-
pared it, and overlaid therewith the homs of the
heifer, that the goddess might rejoice when she
beheld the offering. And Stratius and goodly
Echephron led the heifer by the hors, and Aretus
‘came from the chamber, bringing them water for
the hands in a basin embossed with flowers, and
in the other hand he held barley grains in a
basket; and ‘Thrasymedes, steadfast in fight, stood
by, holding in his hands a sharp axe, to fell the
heifer; and Perseus held the bowl for the blood.
Then the old man, Nestor, driver of chariots, began
the opening rite ‘of hand-washing and sprinkling
with barley grains, and earnestly he prayed to
Athene, cutting off as first offering the hair from
‘the head, and casting it into the fire.
   ‘Now when they had prayed, and had strewn the
barley grains, straightway the son of Nestor, Thresy-
medes, high’ of heart, came near and dealt the
blow;and the axe cut through the sinews of the
neck, and loosened the strength of the heifer.
‘Then the women raised the sacred cry,the daughters
and the, sons’ wives and the revered wife of Nestor,
Eurydice, the eldest of the daughters of Clymenus,
and the men raised the heifer’s head from the
proad-wayed earth and held it, and Peisistratus,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_122>>>
THE ODYSSEY, LIL. 455-480
leader of men, cut the throat. And when the black
blood had flowed from her and the life had left the
bones, at once they cut up the body and straight-
way cut out the thigh-pieces all in due order, and
covered them with a double layer of fat, and Iaid raw
flesh upon them. ‘Then the old man bumed them
on billets of wood, and poured over them flaming
wine, and beside him the young men held in their
hands the five-pronged forks. But when the thigh-
pieces were wholly burned, and they had tasted the
inner parts, they ext up the rest and               spit ed and
roasted it, holding the pointed spits in their hands.
   Meanwhile the fair Polycaste, the youngest daugh-
ter of Nestor, son of Neleus, ‘bathed Telemachus.
‘And when she had bathed him and anointed him
richly? with ofl, and had cast about him a faircloale
and a tunic, forth from the bath he came in form
like unto the immortals ;and he went and sat down
by Nestor, the shepherd of the people.
   Now when they had roasted the outer flesh and
had drawn it of the spits, they sat down and
feasted, and worthy men waited on them, pouring
wine? into golden cups. But when they had put
from them the desire of food and drink, the horse-
man, Nestor of Gerenia, was first to speak, saying :
   «My sons, up, yoke for Telemachus horses with
beautiful mane beneath the car, that he may get
forward on his journey.”
   ‘So he spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed; and quickly they yoked beneath the car
the swift horses. And the housewife placed in the
car bread and wine and dainties, such as kings,
         ἃ. Others simply with olive οἱ
         ὁ Or porsibly " uprose to pour them wine.”
                                                             103

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_124>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Ill. 481-497
fostered of Zeus, are wont to eat. Then Tele-
machus mounted the beautiful car, and Peisistratus,
son of Nestor, a leader of men, mounted beside him,
and took the’reins in his hands. He touched the
horses with the whip to start them, and nothing
loath the pair sped on to the plain, and left the
steep citadel of Pylos. So all day long they shook
the yoke which they bore about their necks.
   Now the sun set and all the ways grew dark.
And they came to Pherae, to the house of Diocles,
son of Ortilochus, whom Alpheus begot. There
they spent the night, and before them he set the
entertainment due to strangers.
   80 soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
they yoked the horses and mounted the inlaid car,
and drove forth from the gateway and the echoing
portico. ‘Then Pelsistratus touched the horses with
the whip to start them, and nothing loath the pair
sped onward. So they came to the wheat-bearing
plain, and thereafter pressed on toward their
jJoumey's end, so well did their swift horses bear
them on, And the sun set and all the ways grew
dark,




                                                  105

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_126>>>
BOOK       IV

     Anp they came to the hollow land of Lacedaemon
 with its many ravines, and drove to the palace of
 glorious Menelaus. Him they found giving a mar-
         feast to his many kinsfolk for his noble son and
 daughter within his house. His daughter he was
 sending to the son of Achilles, breaker of the ranks
 of men, for in the land of Troy he first had promised
 and pledged that he would give her, and now the
   sods were bringing their marriage to pass. Her then
 Frewas sendingforthwith horses         andchariots to go
 her way tothe glotious city of the Myrmidons, over
 whom her lord was king; but for his son he was
 bringing to his home from Sparta the daughter of
 Alector, even for the stalwart Megapenthes, who
 ‘was his son well-beloved,* born of ἃ slave woman j
 fortoHelen the gods vouchsafed issue no more after
 that she had at the first borne her lovely child,
 Hermione, who had the beauty of golden Aphrodite.
 So they were feasting in the great high-roofed hall,
 the neighbours and‘kinsfolk ofglorious Menelaus,
 and making merry; and among them a divine min-
strel_was singing to the lyre, and two tumblers
 whirled up and down through the midst of them,
 as he began his song.
    ΣΤ flow Basimann      in the arrndaing  of thie dost
word.            ed etymologion    e not convincing,5   Others
 Tine      woldtomene grownbig”
                                                       107

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_128>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 20-48
    Then the two, the prince Telemachus and the
 glorious son of Nestor, halted at the gateway of the
 palace, they and their two horses. And the lord
 Eteoneus came forth and saw them, the basy squire
of glorious Menelaus; and he went through the hall
 to bear the tidings to the shepherd of the people.
 So he came near and spoke to him winged words :
    “Here are two strangers, Menelaus, fostered of
 Zeus, two men thatarelike the seed of great Zeus.
 Bat tell me, shall we unyoke for them their swift
 horses, or send them on their way to some other
 host, who will give them entertainment?”
    Then, stirred tosore displeasure, fait-haired Mene-
 laus spoke to him: “Aforetime thou wast not wont
 to be a fool, Eteoneus, son of Boethous, but now like
 a child thou talkest folly, Surely we two ate full
 often hospitable cheer of other men, ere we came
 hither in the hope that Zeus would hereafter grant
 us respite from sorrow. Nay, unyoke the strangers’
 horses, and lead the men forward into the house,
 that they may feast.”
    So he spoke, and the other hastened through the
hall,andcalled to the other busy squires to follow
 along with him. They loosed the sweating horses
 from beneath the yoke and tied them at the stalls
 of the horses, and fung before them spelt nd mixed
 therewith white barley. ‘Thentheytilted the chariot
 against the bright entrance walls, and led the men
 into the divine palace. But at the sight they mar-
 yelled as they passed through the palace of the king,
 fostered of Zeus; for there was a gleam as of sun or
 moon over the high-roofed house of glorious Mene-
 laus. But when they had satisfied their eyes with
 gazing they went into the polished baths and bathed,
                                                     109

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_130>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 49-73
‘And when the maids had bathed them and anointed
‘them with ofl, and had east about them fleeey cloaks
and tunics, they sat down on chairs beside Menelaus,
son of Atreus, ‘Then a handmaid brought water for
the hands in afair pitcher of gold, and poured it over
a silver basin for them to wash, and beside them
drew up ἃ polished table. And the grave housewife
brought and set before them bread, and therewith
Gainties in abundance, giving freely of her store.
‘And a carver lifted up and placed before them plat-
ters of all manner of meats, and set: by them golden
goblets. Then fait-haired Menelaus greeted the two
«πὰ said:
   “Take of the food, and be glad, and then when
you have supped, we will ask you who among men
you are; for in you two the breed of your sites is
not lost, but ye are of the breed of men that are
sceptred kings, fostered of Zeus ;for base churls
could not beget such sons as you.”
   So saying he took in his hands roast meat and set
it before them, even the fat ox-chine which they had
set before himselfasa mess of honour. 80 they put
forth their hands to the good cheer lying ready
 before them. But when they had put from them
 the desire of food and drink, lo, then Telemachus
spoke to the son of Nestor, holding his head close to
hhimn, that the others might not hear :
    «Son of Nestor, dear to this heart of mine, mark
 the flashing of bronze throughout the echoing halls,
and the flashing of gold, of electrom, of silver, and
   ὁ Probably   here theandmetal ἦν890masnt,
                                        the   an alloy18 She’
                                             word,                and
                                                         of golplural,
μῆναν,        e400
          inπῖλον bade”     Xvi,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_132>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 1V. 74-99
of ivory. Of such sort, methinks, is the court of
Olympian Zeus within, such untold wealth is here;
amazement holds me as I Took.”
    Nowashe spoke fair-haired Menelaus heard him,
and he spoke and addressed them with winged words
    “Dear children, with Zeus verily no mortal man
could vie, for everlasting are his halls and his po:
sessions; but of men another might vie with me in
wealth or haply might not. For of a truth after
many woes and wide wanderings I brought m
wealth home in my ships and came in the eighth
year, Over Cypras and Phoenicia I wandered, and
Egypt, and T came to the Ethiopians and’ the
Sidonians and the Erembi, and to Libya, where
the lambs are horned from their birth.’ For
there the ewes bear their young thrice within the
full course of the year; there neither master nor
shepherd has any inck of cheese or of meat or of
sweet milk, but the flocks’ ever yield milk to the
miltking the year through. While I wandered in
those lands gathering much livelihood, meanwhile
another slew my brother by stealth and at unawares,
bythe guile of his accursed wife. ‘Thus, thou mayest
see, I have no joy in being lord of this wealth; and
you may well have heard of this from your fathers,
Whosoever they may be, for fall much did 1 suffer,
and let fall into ruin astately house and one stored
with much goodly treasure. Would that I dweltin
uy halls with but a third part of this wealth, and
that those men were safe who then perished in the
broad land of Troy far from horse-pasturing Argos
   1 8 Aristotle understood the passage (11.4. vil , 28);
Herodotus, on the contrary, took the meaning to be ‘begin
st oncetobesomehorued (iv. 39), Kastathius agreeswith
Herodotus,
                                                      τα
    vou 1                                        Ξ-

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_134>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV, 100-126
And yet, though I often sit in my halls weeping
and sorrowing for them all—one moment indeed I
ease my heart with weeping, and then again I
cease, for men soon have surfeit of chill lament—
yet for them all I mourn not so much, despiteτοὶ
Brief as for one only, who makes me to Toate bo
     leep and food, when I think of him; for no one -
of the Achaeans toiled so much as Odysseus toiled
and endured, But to himself, as it seems, his
portion was to be but woe, and for me there is
sorrow never to be forgotten for him, in that he
{is gone so long, nor do we know aught whether
he be alive or dead. Moured is he, I ween, by the
old man Laertes, and by constant Penelope, and by
‘Telemachus, whom he left ἃ new-born ehild in his
house.”
      So he spoke, and in Telemachus he roused the
desire to weep for his father. Tears from his eye-
  ids he let fall upon the ground, when he heard his
father’s name, and with both ‘hands held up his
purple cloak before his eyes. And Menelaus noted
him, and debated in mind and heart whether -he
should leave hin to speak of his father himself, or
whether he should first question him and prove him.
in each thing.
      While he pondered thus in mind and heart, forth
then from her fragrant high-roofed chamber came
Helen, like Artemis of the golden arrows 1 and with
her caine Adraste, and placed for her a chair, beau-
fully wrought, and Alsippe brought ἃ rug of soft
wool and Phylo      ἃsilver basket, which Alcandre had
given her, the wife of Polybus, who dwelt in Thebes
     ἃ The common meaning of Waxey is “asta” but
Heaychius glomes χρυσγλάκατοι bywandlrofor: ἡλακάτη γὰρὁ
fers rr ce                              a          ᾿
                                                     ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_136>>>
THE ODYSSRY, IV. 127-154
 of Egypt, where greatest store of wealth is laid up
 in men’s houses. He gave to Menelaus two silver
 baths and two tripods and ten talents of gold. And
 besides these, his wife gave to Helen also beautiful
 wifts,—a golden dista and a basket with wheels
 beneath did she give, a basket of silver, and with
 gold were the rims thereof gilded. This then the
 handmaid, Phylo, brought and placed beside her,
 filled with finely-spun yarn, and across it_was laid
 the distaf laden with violet-dark wool. So Helen
 sat down upon the chair, and below was a footstoo!
for the feet; and at once she questioned her husband
 on each matter, and said :
    “Do we know, Menelaus, fostered of Zeus, who
 these men declare themselves to be who have come
 to our house? Shall J disguise my thought, or speak
the truth? Nay, my heart bids me speak, For
never yet, I declare, saw I one so like another,
whether man or woman—amazement holds me, as
Llook—as this man is like the son of great-hearted
Odysseus, even Telemachus, who that war ior       left
‘a new-born child in his house, when for the sake of
shameless me ye Achaeans eame up under the walls
of Troy, pondering in your hearts fierce war,
    ‘Then fair-haired Ménelaus answered her “Even
so do I myself now note it, wife, as thou markest
the likeness. Sach were his feet, such his hands,
and the glances of his eyes, and his head and hair
above. And verily but now, as 1 made mention of
Oudysseus and was telling of all the woe and toil
he endure for my δέκ, this youth let fall bitter
‘ear from beneath his brows, holding up his purple
cloak before his eyes.”
              + Othors render, "were finished.”
                                                  n7

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_138>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 155-182
   Then Peisistratus, son of Nestor, answered him:
“Menelaus, son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader
of hosts, his son indeed this youth is, as thou sayest.
Bat he is of pradent mind and feels shame at heart
‘hus on his first coming to make a show of forward
words in the presence of thee, in whose voice we
both take delight as in a god's.’ But the horseman,
Nestor of Gerenia, sent me forth to go with him as
his guide, for he was eager to see thee, that thou
mightest put in his heart some word or some deed.
For many sorrows has a son in his halls when hi
father is gone, when there are none other to be
helpers, even’as it isnow with Telemachus; his
father is gone, and there are no others among the
people who might ward offruin.”
   ‘Then fair-haired Menelaus answered him and
said: “Lo now, verily is there come to my house
the son of a man well-beloved, who for my sake
endured many toils. And I thought that if he came
back 1 should give him weleome beyond all the
other Argives, if Olympian Zeus, wliose voice is
bore afar, had granted to us two a return in our
swift ships over the sea. And in Argos I would
have given him a citytodwell in, and would have
built him α house, when Thad brought him from
Ithaca with his goods and his son and all his people,
@riving ont the dwellers of some one city among
those that lie round about and obey me myself as
their lord. ‘Then, living here, should we ofttimes
have met together, nor would aught have parted us,
loving and joying in one another, until the black
cloud of dexth enfolded us. Howbeit of this, me-
thinks, the god himself must have been jealous, who
to that hapless man alone vouchsafed no return.’
                                                    19

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_140>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 183-209
    So he spoke, and in them all aroused the desire of
lament. Argive Helen wept, the daughter of Zeus,
‘Telemachus wept, and Menelaus, son of Atreus, nor
‘ould the son of Nestor keep his eyes tearless. ”For
he thought in his heart of peerless Antilochus, whom
the glorious son of the bright Dawn? had slai
Thinking of him, he spoke winged words :
    “Son of Atreus, old Nestor used ever to say that
thou wast wise above all men, whenever we made
mention of thee in his halls and questioned one
another. And now, if it may in any wise be,
hhearken to me, for T take no joy in weeping at
supper time2—and moreover early dawn will soon
be here? I count it indeed no binme to weep for
any mortal who has died and met his fate. Yea,
this is the only due we pay to miserable mortals, to
ccut the hair and let a tear fall from the cheeks.
For a brother of mine, too, is dead, nowise the
meanest of the Argives, and thou mayest well have
known him. As forme, {never met him nor saw him;
but men say that Antilochus was above all others
pre-eminent in speed of foot and as a warrior.
    Then fair-haired Menelaus answered him and
said: “My friend, troly thou hast said all that a
wise man might say or do, even one that was older
than thou ;for from such'a father art thou sprung,
wherefore thou dost even speak wisely. Easily
known is the seed of that man for whom the son of
Cronos spins the thread of      good fortune at marriage
and at birth,even asnow he has granted to Nestor
throughout all his days continually that he should
  2ὁ bg,
       OthereMemon,
               render.leaderof che τ Bah mat #00 213,
  2Ponblyy                               (Merry), with which ef,
214;   but οὐ x.allδ. serve forthat” (

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_142>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΤΡ. 210-236
 himself reach a sleck old age in his halls, and that
 his sons in their turn should be wise and most
 valiant with the spear. But we will cease the weep-
 ing which but now was made, and let us once more
 think of our supper, and let them pour water over
 our hands. Tales there will be in the morning also
 for Telemachus and me to tell to one another to the
 full.”
    So he spoke, and Asphalion poured water over
 their hands, the busy squire of glorious Menelaus.
 ‘And they put forth their hands to the good cheer
 lying ready before them.
    ‘Then Helen, daughter of Zeus, took other counsel.
 Straightway she east into the wine of which they
 were drinking a drug to quiet all pain and strife,
+and bring forgetfulness of every ill, Whoso should
 ‘drink this down, when it is mingled in the bowl,
 would not in the course of that day let a tear fall
 down over his cheeks, no, not though his mother
 and father should lie there dead, or though before
 his face men should slay with the sword his brother
 or dear son, and his own eyes beheld it. Such
 cunning drags had the daughter of Zeus, drags of
 fealings which Polydamna, the wife of ‘Thon,      had
 given her, a woman of Egypt, for there the earth,
 the giver of grain, bears greatest store of drugs,
 many that are healing when mixed, and many that
 are baneful; there every man is ἃ physician, wise
 above human kind; for they are of the race of
  Paeéon. Now when she had cast in the drug, and
 had bidden pour forth the wine, again she made
 answer, and said:
    “Menelaus, son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, and
 rye that are here, sons ofnoble men—though now to
                                                    133

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_144>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 237-262
one and now toanother Zeus gives good and ill, for
he ean do all things,—now verily sit ye in the halls
and feast, and take ye joy in telling tales, for I will
tell what fitteth the time. All things I cannot tell
or recount, even all the Inbours of Odysseus of the
steadfast heart; but what a thing was this which
that mighty man wrought and endured in the land
of the ‘Trojans, where you Achaeans suffered woes!
Marring his own body with eruel blows, and Ainging
fa wretched garment about his shoulders, in the
fashion of a slave he entered the brond-wayed city
of the foe, and he hid himself under the likeness of
another, a beggar, he who was in no wise such an
cone at the ships of the Achaeans. In this likeness
he entered the ity of the Trojans, and all of them
‘were but as babes. I alone recognised him in this
disguise, and questioned him, but he in his cunning
sought to avoid me. Howbeit when I was bathing
him and anointing him with ofl, and had put on hi
raiment, and sworn & mighty oath not to make him
Known among the Trojans as Odysseus before that
he reached the swift ships and the huts, then at
length he told me all the purpose of the Achaeans.
And when he had slain many of the Trojans with
the long sword, he returned to the company of
the Argives and broght back plentiful tidings.
‘Then the other Trojan women wailed aloud, but my
soul was glad, for already my heart was turned to
go back to my home, and I groaned fer the blind-
ness that Aphrodite gave me, when she led me
thither from my dear native land, forsaking my
   ἃ The rare word ἀβάκησαν seems li rally to mean “ could
say naught” of. γηπιάζωι
                                                       135

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_146>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 263-292
child and my bridal chamber, and my husband, a
man who lacked nothing, whether in wisdom or in
comeliness.””
   Then fait-haired Menelaus answered her and said:
« Aye verily, all this, wife, hast thou spoken aright.
Ere now have I come to know the counsel and the
mind of many warriors, and have travelled over the
wide earth, but never yet have mine eyes beheld
such an one as was Odysseus of the steadfast heart.
‘What a thing was this, too, which that mighty man
wrought and endured in the carven horse, wherein
all we chiefs of the Argives were sitting, bearing
to the Trojans death and fate! ‘Then thou camest
thither, and it must be that thou wast biden by
some gd, whe wished to grant gloryto the Trojans
and godlike Deiphobus followed         thee on thy way.
‘Thrice didst thou go about the hollow ambush,
trying it with thy touch, and thou didst name aloud
the chieftains of the Danaans by their names, liken-
ingthy voice to the voices: of the wives of all the
Argives. Now I and the son of Tydeus and goodly
Odysseus sat there in the midst and heard how thou
didst call, and we two were eager to rise up and
come forth, or else to answer straightway from
within, but Odysseus held us back and stayed us,
despite our eagemess. ‘Then all the other sons of
the Achaeans held their peace, but Anticlus alone
was fain to speak and answer thee; but Odysseus
firmly closed his mouth with strong hands, and
saved all the Achaeans, and held him thus until
Pallas Athene led thee away.”
   “Then wise Telemachus answered him :“ Menelaus,
son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader of hosts, all
the more grievous is it; for in no wise did this ward
                                                     17

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_148>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 293-319
off from him woeful destruction, nay, not though
the heart within him had been of iron. But eome,
send us to bed, that lulled now by sweet sleep we
may rest and take our joy.”
   ‘Thus he spoke, and Argive Helen bade her hand-
maids place bedsteads beneath the portico, and to
lay on them fair purple blankets, and to spread
thereover coverlets, and on these to put fleecy cloaks
for clothing. But the maids went forth from the
hall with torches in their hands and strewed the
couch, and a herald led forth the guests. So they
slept there in the fore-hall of the palace, the prince
Telemachus and the glorious son of Nestor; but the
son of Atreus slept inthe inmost chamber of the
lofty house, and beside him lay long-robed Helen,
peerless among women.
   ‘So soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
up from his bed arose Menelaus, good at the war-
ery, and put on his clothing. About his shoulders
he slung his sharp sword, and beneath his shining
feet bound his fair sandals, and went forth from
his chamber like unto a god to look upon. Then
he sat down beside Telemachus, and spoke, and
addressed him :
   “What need has brought thee hither, prince
Telemachus, to goodly Lacedaemon over the broad
back of the sea? Is it a public matter, or thine
‘own? Tell me the truth of this.”
   “Then wise Telemachus answered him:      Menelaus,
son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader of hosts, 1
came if haply thou mightest tell me some tidings of
my father. My home is being devoured and           my
rich lands arp Fuined; with men that are foes my
house is filled, who are ever slaying my thronging
                                                   129

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_150>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 320-345
sheep and my sleck kine of shambling gait, even
the wooers of my mother, overweening in theit
 insolence. Therefore am I now come to thy knees,
if perchance thou wist be willing to tell me of his
woeful death, whether thou sawest it haply with
thine own eyes, or didst hear from some other the
story ofhiswanderings ;for beyond all men did his
mother bear him to sorrow, And do thou no wise
out of ruth or pity for me speak soothing words, but
tell me truly how thou didst come to behold him.
I beseech thee, if ever my father, noble Odysseus,
promised aught to thee of word or deed and fulfilled
it in the land of the ‘Trojans, where you Achaeans
suffered woes, be mindful of it now, I pray thee, and
tell me the trath.”
   ‘Then, stirred to soredispleasure, fair-haired Mene-
Jaus spoke to him: “Out upon them, for verily
in the bed of-a man of valiant heart ‘were they
fain to lie, who are themselves cravens. Even as
when in the thicket-lafr of a mighty lion a hind
hhas laid to sleep her new-born suckling fawns, and
roams over the mountain slopes and grassy νὰ
seeking pasture, and then the lion comes to his
lair and upon the two? lets loose a cruel doom,
s0 will Odysseus let loose a cruel doom upon these
men. I would, O father Zeus and Athene and
Apollo, that in such strength as when onee in fair-
stablished Lesbos he rose up and wrestled ἃ match
with Philomeleides and threw him mightily, and
all the Achaeans ‘rejoiced, even in such strength
Odysseus might come amoig the wooers; then
  1 mo place
taking  Grock seomatoabsence
              intothe denoteofthe'hind;
                                 pair of fawns,
                                            flaythexi, sayin
                                                       ΤΩ δὲ
διδοῖRnume thet dualmeane"bothhindasdwna.”
                                                        331

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_152>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 336-370
should they all find swift destruction and bitterness
in their wooing. But in this matter of which thou
dost ask and beseech me, verily I will not swerve
aside to speak of other things, nor will I deceive
thee; but of all that the unerting old man of the
sea told me not one thing will I bide from thee or
conceal.
   “In Egypt! enger though I was to journey hither,
the gods still’held me back, because T offered not to
them heeatombs that bring fulfilment, and the
ever wished that men should be mindful of their
commands, Now there is an island in the surging
sea in front of Fgypt, and men call it Pharos,
distant a5 far as hollow ship runs in a whole day
when the shrill wind blows fair behind her. ‘Therein
is a harbour with good anchorage, whence men
launch the shapely ships into the sea, when they
have drawn supplies of black? water. ‘There for
twenty days the gods kept me, nor ever did the
winds that blow over the deep spring up, which
speed men’s ships over the broad back of the sea.
‘And now would all my stores have been spent and
the strength of my men, had not one of the gods
 taken pity on me and saved me, even Eidothea,
daughter of mighty Proteus, the old man of the sex;
for her heart above all others bad I moved. She
met me as I wandered alone apart from my com-
rades, who were ever roaming about the island,
fishing with bent hooks, for hunger pinched their
bellies; and she came close to me, and spoke, and
            thet black" isapplied to water in deep places,
where the light eannot rench 1 and to water trickling down
the face of a rockcovered.with lichens (liad, xvi,
                                                       133

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_154>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 371-807
   «Art thou so very foolish, stranger, and slack of
wit, or art thou of thine own will remiss, and hast
pleasure in suffering woes? So long art thou pent
    the isle and canst find no sign of deliverance,
and the heart of thy comrades grows faint.’
   So she spoke, and I made answer and said : “1 will
speak out and tell thee, whosoever among goddesses
thou art, that in no wise am I pent here of mine
‘own will, but it must be that I have sinned against
the immortals, who hold broad heaven. But do
thou tell me—for the gods know all things—who of
the immortals fetters me here, and has hindered me
from my path, and tell me of my retum, how I may
ἕο over the tecming deep.’
   So Ispoke,andthe beautifil goddess straightway
made answer: “Then verily, stranger, will I frankly
tell thee all. There is wont to come hither the
unerring old man of the sea, immortal Proteus of
Egypt, who knows the depths of every sea, and is
the servant of Poseidon. He, they say,ismy father
that begat me. If thou couldst in any wise lie in
wait and catch him, he will tell thee thy way and
the measure of thy’ path, and of thy return, how
thou mayest go over the teeming deep. Aye, and
he will tell thee, thou fostered of Zeus, if s0 ‘thou
wilt, what evil and what good has been wroughtin
thy halls, while thou hast been gone on thy long and
BrSo she spoke, and I made answer and said: “Do
thou thyself now devise a means of lying in wait for
the divine old man, lest haply he see me beforehand
and being ware of my purpose avoid me, For hard
{sa god for a mortsl man to master.”
                4Lit, “appointed end.”
                                                  135

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_156>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 398-424
    “So I spoke,andthebeautiful goddess straightway
 made answer:/Then verily, stranger, will T funky
 tell thee all. When the sun hath reached mid
 heaven, the wnerting old man of the sea is wont
 to come forth from the brine at the breath of the
 West Wind, hidden by the dark ripple. And when
 he is come forth, he lies down to sleep in the hollow
 caves; and around him the seals, the brood of the
 fair daughter of the sea, sleep in a herd, coming
 forth from the gray water, and bitter is the smell
 they breathe of the depths of the sea, Thither will
 Tlead thee at break of day and lay you all in a
 row; for do thou choose carefully three of thy com-
 panions, who are the best thou hast in thy well-
 benched ships. And I will tell thee all- the wizard
 wiles of that old man. First he will count the
 seals, and go over them;but when he has told them
all offby fives, and beheld them, he will lay himself
down in their midst, as a shepherd among his flocks
‘ofsheep. Now so soon asyou see him Inid to rest,
thereafter let your hearts be filled with strength
and courage, and do you hold him there despite his
striving and struggling to escape. For try he will,
and will assume all manner of shapes of all things
that move upon the earth, and of water, and of
                    fire. Yet do ye hold him unflinch-
                  im yet the more. But when at length
of his own will he speaks and questions thee inthat
shape in which you saw him laid to rest, then, hero,
stay thy might, and set the old man free, and ask
him who of the gods is wroth with thee, and of
thy return, how thou mayest go over the teeming
deep.”
                                                  137

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_158>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 425-452
        “Sosaying she plunged beneath the surging sea,
     but I went to my ships, where they stood on the
    sand,and many things dia my heart darkly ponder
     as I went, But when I had come down to the ship
     and to the sea, and we had made ready our supper,


β
     and immortal night had come on, then we lay down,
     to rest on the shore of the sea, And as soon as
     early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered, I went
     along the shore of the broad-wayed sea, praying
     earnestly to the gods; and I took with me three of
     my comrades, in whom I trusted most for every
     adventure,
        “She meanwhile had plunged beneath the broad
     bosom of the sea, and had brought forth from the
     deep the skins of four seals, and all were’ newly’
     flayed; and she devised a pot against her father.
     She had scooped out laits in the sand of the sea,
     ‘and sat waiting; and we came very near to her, and
     she made us tolie down in a row, and cast  askin over
     each. ‘Then would our ambush have proved most
     terrible, for terribly did the deadly stench of the
     brine-bred seals distress us—who would lay him
     down by a beast of the sea?—but she of herself
     delivered us, and devised great boon; she brought
     ‘and placed ambrosia of a very sweet fragrance
     beneath each man’s nose, and destroyed the stench
     of the beast. So all the morning we waited with
     steadfast heart, and the seals came forth from the
     sea in throngs. ‘These then laid them down in
     rows along the shore of the sea, and at noon the old
     ‘man came forth from the sea and found the fatted
     seals; and he went over all, and counted their
     number. Among the ereatures he counted us first,
     nor did his heart guess that there was guile; and
                                                       139

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_160>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 453-480
    then he too laid him down. Thereat we rushed
    upon him with a shout, and threw our arms about
    hhim, nor did that old man forget his crafty wiles,
    Nay, at the first he turned into a bearded lion, and
    then into a serpent, and a leopard, and a huge boar ;
    then he turned into flowing water, and into a tree,
    high and leafy; but we held on unflinchingly with
    steadfast heart But when at last that old man,
    skilled in wizard arts, grew weary, then he ques-
    tioned me, and spoke, and said :
       “Who of the gods, son of Atreus, took counsel
    with thee that thou mightest Iie in wait for me,
    andtale me aginst my will? OF what hast thow
    need?
       “So he spoke, and I made answer, and sai
    ‘Thou knowest, old man—why dost thou seek to
    put me off with this question?—how long a time
    Tam pent in this isle, and can find no sign of
    deliverance, and my heart grows faint within me.
    Bat do thou tell me—for the gods know all things—
    who of the immortals fetters me here, and has
    hindered me fom my path, and tell me of my
    return, how I may go over the teeming deep.”
       So I spoke, and he straightway made answer,
    and said: ‘Nay, surely thou oughtest to have made
    fair offerings to Zens and the other gods before
    embarking, that with greatest speed thou mightest
    have come to thy country, sailing over the wine-
    dark sea. For itis not thy fate to see thy friends,
    and reach thy well-built house and thy native land,
    before that thou hast oncemore gone to the waters
    of Aegyptus, the heaven-fed river,‘and hast offered
{   holy hecatombs to the immortal gods who hold
    broad heaven. Then at length shall the gods grant
    thee the journey thou desirest.”                 14

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_162>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 481-508
        “So he spoke, and my spirit was broken within
    me, for that he bade me go again over the: misty
    deep to Aegyptus, a long and weary way. Yet even
    so I made answer, and said:
       «AM this will T perform, old man, even as thou
    dost bid. But come now, tell me this, and declare
    it truly. Did all the Achaeans return unscathed in
    their ships, all those whom Nestor and I left, as we
    set out from Troy? Or did any perish by ἃ cruel
    death on board “his ship, or in the arms of his
    friends, when he had wound up the skein of war?’
        “So'I spoke, and he straightway made answer,
    and said: ‘Son’ of Atreus, why dost thou question
    meofthis? In no wise does it behove thee      toknow,
    or to learn my mind ; nor, methinks, wilt thou long be
    free from tears, when thou hast heard all aright.
    For many of them were slain, and many were left;
    but two chieftains alone of the brazen-coated Ach-
    aeans perished on their homeward way (as-for the
    fighting, thou thyself wast there), and one, I ween,
    still lives, and is held back on the broad deep.
        © Ains truly was lost amid his long-oared ships.
    Upon the great rocks of Gyrae Poseidon at first
    drove him, but saved him from the sea; and he
    would have escaped his doom, hated of Athene
    though he was, had he not uttered a boastful word


|
    in great blindness of heart, He declared that it
    was in spite of the gods that he had escaped the
    great gulf of the sea; and Poseidon heard his
    boastful speech, andstraightway took his trident in
    his mighty hands, and smote the rock of Gyrae and
    clove it in sunder. And one part abode in its place,

|
    but the sundered part fell into the sea, even that on
                                                      143

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_164>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 09-533
which Aias sat at the first when his heart wasgreatly
blinded, and it bore him down into the boundless
surging deep. So there he perished, when he had
drunk the salt water.
   «But thy brother eseaped, indeed, the fates and
shanned them with his hollow ships, for queenly
Hera saved him. But when he was now about to
reach the steep height of Malea, then the storm-
wind caught him up and bore him over the teemin
deep, groaning heavily, to the border of the land,
where aforetime Thyestes dwelt, but where now
welt ‘Thyestes’ son Aegisthus.” But when from
henee too a safe return was shewed him, and the
gods changed the course of the wind that it blew
fair, and they reached home, then verily with
rejoicing did Agamemnon set’ foot on his native
land, and he clasped his land and kissed it, and
many were the hot tears that streamed from his
eyes, for welcome to him was the sight of his land.
Now from his place of watch a watchman saw
him, whom guileful Aegisthus took and set there,
promising him as a reward two talents of gold; and
he had been keeping guardfor ayear, lestAgamemnon
should pass by him unseen, and be mindful of his
furious might. So he went to the palace to bear the
tidings to the shepherd of the people, and Aegisthus
straightway planned a treacherous device. He chose
out twenty men, the best in the land, and set them
to lie in wait, but on the further side of the hall he
bade prepare ἃ feast. ‘Then he went with chariot
and horses to summon Agamemnon, shepherd of the
people, his mind pondering a dastardly deed. So
                 fn Mycenae),
at thi thetimeArgolic          we must understand this phrase to
mean                   promontory.
                                                            145
   vont                                                F

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_166>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 534-560
he brought him up all unaware of his doom, and
when he had feasted him he slew him, as one slays
an ox at the stall, And not one of the comrades of
the son ofAtreus was left, of all that followed him,
nor one of the men of Aegisthus, but they were all
slain in the halls.”
     “So he spoke, andmy spirit was broken within me,
and I wept, as I'sat on the sands, nor had my heart
any longer desire tolive and to behold the light of
fhe sun, But when I had bad my fll of weeping
and writhing, then the unerring old man of the sea
said to me:
     No more, son of Atrens, do thou weep long time
thus without ceasing, for in it we shall find no help,
Nay, rather, with all the speed thou canst, strive
that thou mayest come to thy native land, for either
thon wilt find Aegisthus alive, or haply Orestes may
have forestalled thee and slain him, and thou mayest
‘chance upon his funeral feast.”
     So he spoke, and my heart and spirit were again
‘warmed with comfort in my breast despite my grief,
and I spoke, and addressed him with winged words!
     «Of these men now Iknow, but do thoa name
the third, who he is that still lives, and is held back
upon the broad sea, or is haply dead. Fain would I
hear, despite my grie
     “So I spoke, and he straightway made answer,
and said: ΤῈ is the son of Laertes, whose home is in
 Ithaca. Him I saw in an island, shedding big tears,
in the halls of the nymph Calypso, who keeps him
there perforce, and he cannot come to his native
land, for he has at hand no ships with oars and no
comrades to send him on his way over the broad
                                                    ut

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_168>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 1V. 561-589
  back of the sea. But for thyself, Menelaus, fostered
 of Zeus, itis not ordained that thou shouldst die and
 meet thy fate in horse-pasturing Argos, but
 Elysian plain and the bounds of the earth willto the
 immortals convey thee, where. dwells fair-hairthe
  Rhadamanthus, and where life is easiest for men,ed
 No snow is there, nor heavy storm, nor ever rain,
 bbut ever does Ocean send up blasts of the shrill:
 blowing West Wind that they may give cooling to
 menj for thou hast Helentowife, and art in their
 eyes the husband of the daughter of Zeus.”
    80 saying he plunged beneath the surging sea,
but I went to my ships with my godlike comrades,
 and many things did my heart darkly ponder as {
went. But when I had come down to the ship and
to the sea, and we had made ready our supper, and
immortal night had come on, then we lay down to
 rest onthe shore of the sea, And as soon as earl
Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered, our ships firstof all
we drew down to the bright sea, and set the masts
and the salls in the shapely ships, and the men, too,
went on board and sat down upon the benches, and
sitting well in order smote the grey sea with their
oars. 80 back again to the waters of Aegyptus, the
heaven-fed river, I sailed, and there moored my
ships and offered hecatombs that bring fulfilment.
But when I had stayed the wrath of the gods that
are forever, I heaped up a mound to Agamemnon,
that his fame might be unquenchable. Then, when
Thad made an end of this, I set out for home, and
the immortals gave me a fair wind, and brought me
swiftly to my dear native land, But come now, tarry
in my halls until the eleventh or the twelfth day be
come. Then will 1 send thee forth with honour and
                                                   149

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_170>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 590-617
give thee splendid gifts, three horses and a well-
polished ear; and besides I will give thee abeautiful
‘cup, that thou mayest pourlibations      totheimmortal
gods, and remember me all thy days.”
     ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Son of
Atreus, keep me no long time here, for verily for a
year would I be content to sit in thy house, nor
Would desire for home or parents come upon me;
for wondrous is the pleasure I take in listening to
thy talesand thy speech. But even now my comrades
are chafing in sacred Pylos, and thou art keeping me
long time here. And whatsoever gift thou wouldest
give me, let it be some treasure; but horses will I
not take to Ithaca, but will leave them here for thy-
self to delight in, for thou art lord of a wide plain,
wherein is lotus in abundance, and galingale and
wheat and spelt, and broad-eared white barley. But
in Ithaca there are no widespread courses nor aught
of meadow-land. It is a pasture-land of goats and
pleasanter than one that pastures horses. For not
       of the islands that lean upon the sea is fit for
          horses, or richinmeadows, and Ithaca least
     So he spoke, and Menelaus, good at the war-cry,
smiled, and stroked him with his hand, and spoke,
and addressed him :
     “Thou art of noble blood, dear child, that thou
speakest thus. Therefore will I change these gifts,
for well Imay. Of all the gifts that lie stored as
‘treasures in my house, I will give thee that one
which is fairest and costliest, 1 will give thee a
well-wrought          mixing bowl. All of silver it is, and
with gold are the rims thereof gilded, the work of
Hephaestus and the warrior Phaedimus, king of the
                                                        151

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_172>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΙΝ. 618-645
 Sidonians, gave it me, when his house sheltered me
 ἃς I came thither, and now I am minded to give it
 to thee.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another, and meanwhile
 the bangueters came to the palace of the divine
 king. They drove up sheep, and brought strength-
 ening wine, and their wives with beautiful veils sent
 them bread. ‘Thos they were busied about the feast
 in the halls.
    But the wooers in front of the palace of Odysseus
 were making merry, throwing the discus and the
javelin in a levelled place, as their wont was, in
 insolence of heart; and Antinous and godlike Rury-
 machus were sitting there, the leaders of the wooers,
‘who in valiance were far the best of all. ΤῸ them
 Noemon, son of Phronius, drew near, and he ques-
      ied Antinous, and spoke, and said :
    “Antinous, know we at all in our hearts, or know
we not, when ‘Telemachus will return from sandy
Pylos?” He is gone, taking ship of mine, and I
have need of her to cross over to spacious Elis,
where I have twelve brood mares, and at the teat
sturdy mules as yet unbroken. Of these 1 would
fain drive one off and break him in.”
   So he spoke, and they marvelled at heart, for they
did not deem that ‘Telemachus had gone to Neleian
Pylos, but that, he was somewhere there on his lands,
among the flocks or with the swincherd,
   Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke to him,
soying: “Tell me the truth; when did he go, and
what youths went with him? Were they chosen
youths of Ithaca, or hirelings and slaves of his own?
Able would he be to accomplish even that. And tell
me this truly, that I may know full well. Was it
                                                   153

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_174>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 646-672
perforce and against thy will that he took from thee
the black ship? or didst thou give it him freely of
thine own will, because he besought thee?”
   Then Noemon, son of Phronius, answered him:
“I myself freely gave it him. What else could any
man do, when a man like him, his heart laden with
care, makes entreaty? Hard it were to deny the
gift. The youths that are the noblest in the land
after ourselves, even these have gone with him and
among them I noted one going on board as their
leader, Mentor, or a κοῦ, who was in all things like
unto Mentor, “But at this 1 marvel. I saw goodly
Mentor here yesterday at carly dawn; butat that
time he embarked for Pylos.”
   So saying he departed to his father's house, but
of those two the proud hearts were angered. ‘The
‘wooers they straightway made to sit down and cease
from their games and among them spoke Antinous,
gon of Bapethes, in disease ;and with rye was
his black heart wholly filled, and his eyes were like
blazing fire.
   “Out upon him, verily a proud deed has been
insolently brought to pass by Telemachus, even this
journey, and we deemed that he would never see it
accomplished. Forth in despite of all of us here
the lad is gone without more ado, launching a ship,
and choosing the best men in the land. He will
begin by and by to be our bane; but to his own
undoing may Zeus destroy his might before ever he
reaches the measure of manhood. But come, give
me a swiftship and twenty men, that Imay watch in
ambush for him as he passes in the strait between
  haea and rugged! Samos. ‘Thus shall his voyaging
in search of his father come to a sorry end.”
                                                  155

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_176>>>
THE ODYSSEY, 1V. 673-699
   So he spoke, and they all praised his words, and
bade him act.’ And straightway they rose up and
went to the house of Odysseus.
   ‘Now Penelope was no long time without know-
ledge of the plans which the wooers were plotting
in the deep of their hearts; for the herald Medon
told her, who heard their counsel as he stood without


  forth?
aOdysseus
     feast fortothem?
                cease from their tasks, and make ready
                           Never wooing? any more, nor
 consorting together elsewhere, may they now feast
 here their latest and their last—even ye who are
 ever thronging here and wasting much livelihood,
 the wealth ofwiseTelemachus. Surely ye hearkened
 not at all in olden days, when ye were children,
 ‘when your fathers told what manner of man Odysseus
 ‘was among them that begat you, in that he wrought
 no wrong in deed or word fo any man in the land,
 as the wont is of divine kings—one man they hate
 and another they love Yet he never wrought
 {niguity at all to any man. But your mind and your
 unseemly deeds are plain to see, nor is there in after
 days any gratitude for gooddeeds done.
    "PhenMfedon, wise ἘΚhear, anowered her: Αἱ
 would, Ο queen, that this were the greatest. evil
 Batanother greater far and more grievous are the
‘wooers planning, which I pray that the son ofCronos
    ἃ In the interpretation of this vexed passage I follow
‘Agar, Homeriea, pp. 69 ff,
                                                       157

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_178>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 700~726
 may never bring to pass. They are minded to slay
 ‘Telemachus with the sharp sword on his homeward
  way; for he went in quest of tidings of his father
 to sacred Pylos and to goodly Lacedaemon.””
    So he spoke, and her knees were loosened where
 she sat, and her heart melted. Long time she was
 speechiess, and both her eyes were filled with tears,
 and the flow of her voice was checked. But at last
 she made answer, and said to him :
    “Herald, why is my son gone? He had no need
 to go on board swift-faring ships, which serve men
 as horses of the deep, and cross over thie widi
 of the sea, Was it that not even his nam¢
 be left among men?”
    ‘Then Medon, wise of heart, answered her: 1
 know not whether some god impelled him, or whether
 his own heart was moved to go to Pylos, that he
 might learn either of his father's return or what fate
 he had met.”
    ‘So he spoke, and departed through the house of
 Odysseus, and on her fell a cloud of soul-consuming
 grief, and she had no more the heart to sit upon one
Of the many seats that were in the room, but down
upon the threshold of her fair-wrought chamber she
sank, moaning piteously, and round about her wailed
her handmaids, even all that were in the house, both
young and old. Among these with sobs of lament-
ation spoke Penelope =
    “Hear me, my friends, for to me the Olympian,
has given sorrow above all the women who were
bred and born with me. For long since I lost my
noble husband of the lion heart, pre-eminent in all
manner of worth among the Danaans, my noble
husband, whose fane is wide through Hellas and
                                                  159

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_180>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 727-755
  mid-Argos. And now again my well-loved son have
  the storm-winds swept away from our halls without
  tidings, nor did I hear of his setting forth. Cruel,
 that ye are! Not even you took thought, any one of
 you, to rouse me from my couch, though in your
 hearts ye knew fall well when he went on board the
 hollow black ship. For had I learned that he was
 pondering this journey, he should verily have stayed
 here, how eager soevertobe gone, or he should have
 left me dead in the halls. But now let one hasten
 to call hither the aged Dolius, my servant, whom my
 father gave me or ever I came hither, and who keeps
 my garden of many trees, that he may straightway
 go and sit by Laertes, and tell him of all these
 things. So haply may Laertes weave some plan in
 his heart, and go forth and with weeping make his
 plea to the people, who are minded to destroy his
 race and that of godlike Odysseus.”
    Then the good nurse Eurycleia answered her :
 “Dear lady, thou mayest verily slay me with the
 pitiless sword or let me abide in the house, yet will
 T not hide my word from thee. I knew all this, and
‘gave him whatever he bade me, bread and sweet wine.
 Bat he took from me a mighty oath not to tell thee
until at least the twelfth day should come, or thou
shouldst thyself miss him and hear that he wasgone,
that thou mightest not mar thy fair flesh with weep-
ing. But now bathe thyself, and take clean raiment
for thy body, and then go up to thy upper chamber
with ‘thy handmaids and pray to Athene, the
daughter of Zeus who bears the aegis; for she may
then save him even from death. And trouble not a
troubled old man ;for the mace of the son of Arceisius
isnot, methinks, utterly hated by the blessed gods,
                                                   161

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_182>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 156-779
    but there shall still be one, I ween,tohold the high-
    roofed halls and the rich fields far away.”
       So she spoke, and lulled Penelope’s laments, and
    made her eyes to cease from weeping. She then
    bathed, and took clean raiment for her body, and
    went up to her upper chamber with her handmaids,
    and placing barley grains in a basket prayed to
    Athen
       “Hear me, child of Zeus who bears the aegis,
   unwearied one. If ever Odysseus, of many wiles,
   burnt to thee in his halls fat thigh-picces of heifer
   or ewe, remember these things now, I pray thee, and
   save my dear son, and ward off from him the wooers
   in their evil insolence,
       So saying she raised the sacred ery, end the god-
   dess heard her prayer. But the wooers broke into
   uproar throughout the shadowy halls, and thus
   ‘would one of the proud youths speak :
      “Aye, verily the queen, wooed of many, is pre-
   iering our marrige, nor does she know ab all that
     leath has been made ready for her son.”
      So would one of them speak; but they knew
«not how these things were to be. And Antinous
   addressed their company, and said :
      «Good sirs,! shun haughty speech of every kind
  alike, lest someone report your speech even within
  the house. Nay come, in silence thus let us arise and
  put into effect our plan which pleased us one and
  all at heart.”
      So he spoke, and chose twenty men that were best,
  and they went their way to the swift ship and the
  person sldressed ie acting in some unsccountably or ill
  Smened way. Hence the tanevariesfrom angry remonstrance
  to gentle expostulation, oreven pity.
                                                     163

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_184>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 780-807
shore of the sea, The ship first of all-they drew
down to the deep water, and set the mast and sail in
the black ship, and fitted the oars in the leathern
thole-straps, all in due order, and spread the white
             ‘And proud squires brought them their weapons.
Well out in the roadstead they moored the ship,
and themselves disembarked. There then they took
supper, and waited till evening should come.
          jut she, the wise Penelope, lay there in her
upper chamber, touching no food, tasting neither
meat nor drink, pondering whether her peerless son
would escape death, or be slain by the insolent
wooers. And even asa lion is seized with fear and
broods amid a throng of men, when they draw their
crafty ring about him, so was she pondering when
sweet? sleep came upon her. And she sank back
‘and slept, and all her joints relaxed.
      ‘Then the goddess, fiashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. She made a phantom, and likened
it in form to a woman, Iphthime, daughter of
great-hearted Icarfus, whom Kumelus wedded, whose
home wasin Pherae. And she sent it to the house
of divine Odysseus, to Penelope in the midst of her
wailing and lamenting, to bid her cease from weep-
ing and tearful lamentation. So into the chamber
      passed by the thong of the bolt, and stood above
her head, and spoke to her, and said :
      ‘«Sleepest thou, Penelope, thy heart sore stricken?
Nay, the gods that live at ease sulfer thee not to
weep or be distressed, secing that thy son is yet to
return; for in no wise is he a sinner in the eyes of
the gods.”
anδι2Te,178,
       arial  scoms certain that γήδυμον has in all cauce supplanted
                    Αναν ante "ew Baths Lesboyey Ὁ
              and Mores nota he
                                                                165

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_186>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 808-837
      ‘Then wise Penelope answered her, asshe shumbered
  very sweetly at the gates of dreams:
      ‘Why, sister, art thou come hither? Thou hast
  not heretofore been wont to come, for thou dwellest
  in a home far away. And thou biddest me cease
  from my grief and the many pains that distress me
  in mind and heart. Long since I lost my noble
 husband of the lion heart, pre-eminent in all manner
  of worth among the Danaans, my noble husband
 whose fame is wide in Hellas and mid-Argos. And
 now again my well-loved son is gone forth in a
 hollow ship, a mere child, knowing naught of toils
 and the gatherings of men. For him I sorrow even
 more than for that other, and tremble for him, and
 fear lest aught befall him, whether it be in the land
 of the men to whom he is gone, or on the sea. For
 many foes are plotting against him, eager to slay
 hhim before he comes back to his native land.”
          nn the dim phantom answered her, and said:
 “Take heart, and be not in thy mind too sore
 afraid ;since such a guide goes with him as men
 have fall often besought to stand by their side, for
 she has power,—even Pallas Athene. And she pities
 thee in thy sorrow, for she it is that has sent me
 forth to tell thee this.”
     Then again wise Penelope answered her: “If
thou art indeed a god, and hast listened to the
voice of agod, come, tell me, I pray thee, also of
that hapless one, whether he still lives and’ beholds
the light     ofthe sun, or whether he is already dead
and in the house of Hades.”                  5
     ‘And the dim phantom answered her, and saidt
“Nay, of him I may not speak at length, whether
he be alive or dead; it is an ill thing to speak
‘words vain aswind,”
                                                    167

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_188>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IV. 838-847
    So saying the phantom glided away by the bolt
of the doorintothe breath of the winds. And the
daughter of Icarius started up from sleep, and her
heart was warmed with comfort, that so clear ἃ
vision had sped to her in the darkness? of night.
    But the wooers embarked, and sailed over the
watery ways, pondering in their hearts utter murder
for Telemachus. ‘There is a rocky isle in the midst
of the sea, midway between Ithaca and rugged
Samos, Asteris, of no great size, but therein is a
harbour where ships may lie, with an entrance on
either side. There it was that the Achacans tarried,
lying in wait for Telemachus,
   ὁ Tho word is of uncertain etyinology, and ite precine
rigaificance is doubtful.       Soe              ie

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_190>>>
lordly ‘Tithonus, to hear light to the immortals and
 to mortal men. And the gods were sitting down to
 council, and among them Zeus, who thunders on
 high, whose might is supreme.” ΤῸ them Athene
 was tecounting the many woes of Odysseus, as she
called them to mind; for it troubled her that he
abode in the dwelling of the nymph :
    “Father Zeus, and ye other blessed gods that are
 forever, never henceforward let sceptred king with
a ready heart be kind and gentle, nor let him heed
righteousness in his mind; but let him ever be
harsh, and work unrighteousness, seeing that no
one remembers            divine Odysseus of the people
whose lord he was; yet gentle was he as a father.
He verily abides in an island suffering grievous
pains, in the halls of the nymph Calypso, who keeps
him perforce ;and he cannot return to his own land,
for he has at hand no ships with oars and no com-
rades to send him on his way over the brond back of
the sea, And now again they are minded to slay
hhis well-loved son on his hoineward way; for he
went in quest of tidings of his father to sacred
Pylos and to goodly Lacedaemon.”
    Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered her,
and said: “My child, what a word has eseaped
                                                   an

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_192>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 23-49
 the barrier of thy teeth! Didst thou not. thyself
 devise this plan, that verily Odysseus might take
 vengeance on these men at his coming? Bat con-
 cerning Telemachus, do thou guide him in thy
 wisdom, for thou canst, that all unscathed he may
 reach his native lind, and the wooers may come
 back in their ship baffied in their purpose.”
    He spoke, and said to Hermes, his dear son:
 “Hermes, do thou now, seeing that thou art at
 other times our messenger, declare to the fair-
 tressed nymph our fixed resolve, even the return
 of Odysseus of the steadfast heart, that he may
 return with guidance neither of gods nor of
mortal men, but that on astoutly-bound raft, suf-
 fering woes, he may come on the twentietlt day
to deep-soiled Scheria, the land of the Phacacians,
who are near of kin to the gods. ‘These shall heartily
shew him all honour, asif he were a god, and shall
send him in a ship to his dear native land, after
giving him stores of bronze and gold and raiment,
more than Odysseus would ever have won for him:
self from Troy, if he had returned unscathed with
his due share of the spoil. For in this wise it is his
fate to see his friends, and reach his high-roofed
house and his native land.”
   So he spoke, and the messenger, Argeiphontes,
failed not to hearken. Straightway he bound beneath
his feet his beautiful sandals, immortal, golden, which
were wont to bear him over the waters of the sea
and over the boundless land swift as the blasts of
the wind. And he took the wand wherewith he
lulls to sleep the eyes of whom he will, while others
‘again he awakens even out of slumber. With this
in his hand the strong Argeiphontes flew. On to
                                                     13

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_194>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 50-80
  Pieria he stepped from the upper air, and swooped
 down upon the sea, and then sped over the wave
 like ἃ bird, the cormorant, which in quest of fish
 over the dread gulfs of the unresting sea wets its
 thick plumage in the brine. In such wise did
 Hermes ride upon the multitudinous waves. But
 when he had reached the island which lay aftr,
 then forth from the violet sea he came to land, and
 vent his way until he eame toa great cave, wherein
 dwelt the fai-tressed nymph; and he found her
 within, A great fire was burning on the hearth,
 and from afar over the isle there was a fragrance
 of cleft: cedar and juniper, as they bumed; but
 she within was singing with a sweet voice as she
 went to and fro before the loom, weaving with a
 golden shuttle. Round about the eave grew a
 luxuriant wood, alder and poplar and sweet-smelling
 cypress, whe            is long of wing were wont to
nest, owls and faleons and seacrows with chattering
tongues, who ply their business on the sea. And
right there about the hollow cave ran trailing a
garden vine, in pride of its prime, richly Inden with
clusters, And fountains four ina row were flowing
with bright water hard by one another, tumed one
this way, one that. And round about soft meadows
of violets and parsley were blooming. ‘There even
         jortal, who chanced to come, might gaze and
        |,and delight his soul ;and thefe the messenger
Argeiphontes stood and marvelled, But when he
had marvelled in his heart at all things, straightway
he went into the wide cave; nor did ‘Calypso, the
beautiful goddess, fail to know him, when she saw
him face to face; for not unknown are the immortal
gods to one another, even though one dwells in a
                                                   175

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_196>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 81-109
  home far away. But the greathearted Odysseus
  he found not within; for he sat weeping on the
 shore, as his wont had been, racking his soul with
 tears and groans and grief, and he would look over
 the unresting sea, shedding tears. And Calypso,
 the beautiful goddess, questioned Hermes, when
 she had made him sit on a bright shining chair :
     “Why, pray, Hermes of the golden wand, hast
 thou come, an honourable guest and welcome?
 Heretofore thou hast not been wont to come. Speak
 what is in thy mind; my heart bids me fulél it, if
 fulfll it I can, and it isἃthing that hath fulfilment.
 Bat follow me further, that I'may set before thee
 entertainment.”
    So saying, the goddess set before him a table
 aden with ambrosia, and mixed the ruddy nectar.
 So he drank and ate, the messenger Argeiphontes.
 Bat when he had dined and satisfied his soul with food,
 thenhemade answer,and addressed her, saying:
    “Thou, a goddess, dost question  me,a god,uponτὸν
 coming,   and  I wil speak my  word  truly, since thot
 iddest me. It was Zeus who bade me come hither
against my will. Who of his own will would speed
over so great space of salt. sea-water, great past
telling? Nor is there at hand any eity of mortals
who offer to the gods sacrifice and choice hecatombs.
But it is in no wise possible for any other god to
evade or make void the will of Zeus, who bears the
aegis. He says that there is here with thee a man
most. wretched above all those warriors who around
the city of Priam fought for nine years, and in the
tenth year sacked the city and departed homeward.
But on the way they sinned against Athene, and she
sent upon them an evil wind and long waves. There
                                                    τη}
   vou αν                                       ο

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_198>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 110-135
all the rest of his goodly comrades perished, butas
for him, the wind and the wave, as they bore him,
brought him hither. Him now Zeus bids thee to
send on his way with all speed, for it is not his fate
to perish here far from his friends, but it is still his
lot to see his friends and reach his high-roofed house
and his native land.
   So he spoke, and Calypso, the beautiful goddess,
shuddered, and she spoke, and addressed him wit
winged words: Cruel are ye, O ye gods, and quick
to envy above all others, seeing that ye begrudge
goddesses that they should mate with men openly,
Hany takes a mortal as her dear bed-fellow. ‘Thus,
when rosy-fingered Dawn took to herself Orion, ye
sods that live at ease begrudged her, till in Ortygia
‘chaste Artemis of the golden throne assailed him
with her gentle? shafts and slew him, ‘Thus too,
when fair-tressed Demeter, yielding to her passion,
lay in love with Iasion in the thrice-ploughed fallow
land, Zeus was not long without knowledge thereof,
Dut smote him with his bright thander-bolt and slew
him, And even so again do ye now begrudge me,
Ὁ ye gods, that ἃ mortal man should abide with me.
       Tsaved when he was bestriding the keel and
    ‘alone, for Zeus had smitten his swift ship with
bis bright thander-bolt, and had shattered? it in the
midst of the wine-dark sea. There all the rest of
his goodly comrades perished, but as for him, the
wind and the wave, as they bore him, brought him
hither. Him I welcomed kindly and gave him food,
   2 th "HPs
soy,     phrase
             nycommonly
                hoe     denetes
                     οὐρὰ οἱ   asont
                             Goat painleasby death
                                             ὁ     (aoingol
                                               wental
or goddens,
   "Possibly “subuerged”; ¢f vil. 250.
                                                       179

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_200>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 136-162
and said that 1 would make him immortal and age-
less all his days. But since it is in no wise possible
for any other god to evade or make void the will of
Zeus who bears the aegis, let him go his way, if Zeus
thus orders and commands, over the unresting sea.
But it is not I that shall give him convoy, for I-have
at hand no ships with oars and no men to send him
‘on his way over the broad back of the sea. But with
ἃ ready heart will I give him counsel, and will hide
naught, that all unseathed he may return to his
native land.”
   ‘Then again the messenger Argeiphontes answered
her: “Hiven so send him forth now, and beware of
the wrath of Zeus, lest haply he wax wroth and visit
his anger upon thee hereafter.”
   Sosaying, the strong Argeiphontes departed, and
the queenly nymph went to the great-hearted Odys-
seus, when she had heard the message of Zeus.
Him she found sitting on the shore, and his eyes
were never dry of tears, and his sweet life was
ebbing away, as he longed mournfully for his return,
for the nymph was no longer pleasing in his sight
By night indeed he would sleep by her side perforce
in the hollow caves, unwilling beside the willing
nymph, but by day he would sit on the rocks and
{Hesands, racking his gu! with tears and groans and
griefs, and he would look over the unresting sea,
shedding tears. ‘Then coming close to him, the
beautiful goddess addressed him :
   “Unhappy man, sorrow no longer here, I pray
thee, nor let thy life pine away; for even now with
ἃ ready heart will { send thee on thy way. Nay,
come, hew with the axe long beams, and make ἃ
                                                  181

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_202>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. χόξ-ιϑι
 broad raft, and fasten upon it cross-planks for a deck
 well above it, that it may bear thee over the misty
deep. And I will place therein bread and water and
red wine to satisfy thy heart, to keep hunger from
thee. And I will clothe thee with raiment, and
will send a fair wind behind thee, that all unscathed
thou mayest return to thy native land, if it be the
will of the gods who hold broad heaven; for th
are mightier than I both to purpose and to fulfil
   So she spoke, and much-enduring goodly Odysseus
shuddered, and he spoke, and addressed her with
winged words: “Some other thing, goddess, art
thou planning in this, and not my sending, seeing
that thou biddest me cross on a raft the great gulf
of the sea, dread and grievous, over which not even
the shapely, swift-faring shi            5 rejoicing in
the  wind  of  Zeus.  But   will nt  act  foot on a τοῖν
in thy despite, unless thou, goddess, wilt bring thy-
self to swear    amighty orth that thou wilt not plot
against me any fresh mischieftomy hurt
   So he spoke, but Calypso, the Denatifil goddess,
smiled, and stroked him with her hand, and spoke,
and addressed him: ‘Verily thou art a knave, and
not stunted in wit, that thou hast bethought thee to
utter such a word. Now therefore let earth be wit
ness to this, and the broad heaven above, and the
down-flowing water of the Styx, which isthe greatest
and most dread oath for the blessed gods, tliat I will
not plot against thee any fresh mischief to thy hurt,
Nay, I have such thoughts in mind, and will give
such counsel, as I should devise for mine own self, if
such need should come on me. For I too have a
mind that is righteous, and the heart in this breast
of mine is not of iron, but hath compassion.”
                                                     183

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_204>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 192-222
      So saying, the beautiful goddess led the way
 quickly, and he followed in the footsteps of the
 goddess. And they came to the hollow cave, the
goddess and the man, and he sat down upon the
 chair from which Hermes had arisen, and the nymph
set before him all manner of food to eat and drink,
 of such sort as mortal men eat. But she herself sat
over against divine Odysseus, and before her the
 hhandmaids sct ambrosia and nectar. So they put
 forth their hands to the good cheer lying ready
before them, But when they had had their dll of
 food and drink, Calypso, the beautiful goddess, was
 the first   to speak, and said:             ἣ
      “Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus of
many devices, would’st thou then fare now forthwith
home to thy’ dear native land! Yet, even so fare
thee well. Howbeit if inthy heart thou knewest
all the measure of woe it is thy fate to fulfil before
thou comest to thy native land thou wouldest abide
here and keep this house with me, and wouldest be
immortal, for all thy desire to see thy wife for whom
thou longest day by day. Surely not inferior to her
Gol      declare mytelf to be either in form or stature,
for inno wise is it seemly that mortal women should
vie with immortalsinform or comeliness.””
      ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: Mighty goddess, be not wroth with me for
this. I know full well of myself that wise Penelope
{is meaner to look upon than thou in comeliness and
in stature, for sheis a mortal, while thou art immortal
and ageless. But even so I wish and long day by day
to reach my home, and to see the day of my threturn.
And if agin some god shall smite me on e wine-
ark sea, 1 will endure it, having in my breast a
                                                     185

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_206>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 223-251
heart that endures affliction. For ere this I have
suffered much and toiled much amid the waves and
in war; let this also be added unto that.”
   So he spoke, and the sun set and darkness came
on, And the two went into the innermost recessof
the hollow cave, and took their joy of love, abiding
‘each by the other's side.
   ‘As soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
straightway Odysseus put on a cloak and a tunic,
‘and the nymph clothed herself in a long white robe,
finely woven and beautifal, and about her waist she
cast a fair girdle of gold, and on her head ἃ veil
above. Then she set herself to plan the sending of
the great-hearted Odysseus. She gave him a great
axe, well fitted to his hands, an axe of bronze,
sharpened on both sides; and in it was a beautiful
handle of olive wood, securely fastened; and there-
after she gave him ἃ polished adze. Then she led
the way to the borders of the island where tall
trees were standing, alder and poplar and fir, reach-
ing to the skies, long dry and well-seasoned, which
would float for him lightly. But when she had
shewn him where the tall trees grew, Calypso, the
beautiful goddess, returned homewards, but he fell
to cutting timbers, and his work went forward apace.
Twenty trees in all did he fell, and trimmed them
with the axe; then he cunningly smoothed them all
and made them straight to the line. Meanwhile
Calypso, the beautiful goddess, brought him augers;
and he bored all the pieces and fitted them to one
another, and with pegs and morticings did he hammer
it together. Wide as a man well-skilled in carpentry
marks out the curve of the hull of a freight-ship,
broad of beam, even so wide did Odysseus make his
                                                   187

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_208>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 252-278
raft. And he set up the deck-beams, bolting them
to the close set ribs, and laboured on; and he
finished the raft with long gunwales. In it he set a
mast and a yard-arm, fited to it, and furthermore
nade himasteering-oar, wherewith tosteer. Then he
fenced in the whole from stem to stern with willow
withes to be a defence against the wave, and strewed
much brush thereon!” Meanwhile Calypso, the
beautiful goddess, brought him cloth to make him a
sail, and he fashioned that too with skill. And he
‘made fast in the raft braces and halyards and sheets,
and then with levers? forced it down into the bright
sea.
    Now the fourth day eame and all his work was
done. And on the fifth the beautiful Calypso sent
hima on his way from the island after she had bathed
him and clothed him in fragrant raiment. On the
raft the goddess put askin of dark wine, and another,
ἃ great one, of water, and provisions, too, in a wallet.
‘Therein she pat abundance of dainties to satisfy his
heart, and she sent forth a gentle wind and warm,
Gladly then did goodly Odysseus spread his sail to
the breeze; and he sat and guided his raft skilfally
with the steering-oar, nor did sleep fall upon his
eyelids, as he watched the Pleiads, and Iate-setting
 Bootes, and the Bear, which men also call the Wain,
which ever circles where it is and watches Orion,
and alone has no part in the baths of Ocean. For
this star Calypso, the beautiful goddess, had bidden
hhim to keeponthe left hand as he sailed over the
ses, For seventeen days then he sailed over the
   ὁ the, prose meaning of the phrase is uncertain, ‘he
scholiast aasuned that itineant * threw in much ballané,” but
this nceme impossible. Amets thinks that the ὅλη was to
‘ford Odyseeta a confortable bol. ? Ponsilly * rollers.”
                                                           189

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_210>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 279-303
 sea, and on the eighteenth appeared the shadowy
‘mountains of  the land of the Phaeacians, where it lay
nearest tohim; and it shewed like unto ashield in
 the misty deep.
     But the glorious Barth-shaker, as he came back
from the Ethiopians} beheld him from afar, from the
mountains of the Solymi: for Odysseus was seen of
him sailing over the sea; and he waxed the more
wroth in spirit, and shock his head, and thus he
spoke to his own heart :
     “Out on it! Surely the gods have changed their
   urpose regarding Odysseus, while I was among the
FtMtoptans: “And lo, he i heat to the land of the
 Phacacians, where it is his fate to escape from the
   reat bonds of the woe which has come upon him.
    yye, but even yet, methinks, I shall drive him to
‘surfeit of evil.”
     So saying, he gathered the clouds, and seizing his
trident in his hands troubled the sea, and roused all
blasts of all manner of winds, and hid with clouds
land and sea alike; and night rushed down from
heaven. Together the East Wind and the South
‘Wind dashed,andthe fierce-blowing West Wind and
the North Wind, bom in the bright heaven, τοὶ
before him a mighty wave. ‘Then were the knees of
Odysseus loosened and his heart melted, and deeply
moved he spoke to his own mighty spirit :
     “Ah me, wretched that Iam! What is to befall
‘me at the last? I fear me that verily all that the
‘goddess saidwas true, when she declared that on the
sea, before ever I came to my native land, I should
{ill'ap my measure of woes; and 10, all this now is
being brought to pass. In such wise does Zeus over-
cast the broad heaven with clouds, and has stirred
                        * Seok 911,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_212>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 304-330
 up the sea, and the blasts of all manner of winds
 sweep upon me; now is my utter destruction sure.
‘Dhrice blessed those Danaans, aye, four times blessed,
 who of old perished in the wide land of Troy, doin
 the pleasure of the sons of Atreus, Bren sb would
 that 1 had died and met my fate on that day when
the throngsofthe Trojans hurled upon me bronze-
tipped spears, fighting around the body of the dead
son of Peleus. ‘Then should I have got funeral rites,
and the Achaeans would have spread my fame, but
now by a miserable death was it appointed me to be
cut off.”
   Even   asthus he speke the great wave smote him
from on high, rushing upon hin with terrible might,
and around it whirled his raft. Far from the raft he
fell, and let fall the steering-oar from his hand; but
his mast was broken inthe midst by the fierce blast
of tumultuous winds that came upon it, and far in
the sea sail and yardarm fell. As for him, long time
did the wave hold him in the depths, nor could he
rise at once from beneath the onrush of the mighty
wave, for the garments which beautiful Calypso had
given him weighed him down. At length, how-
ever, he came up, and spat forth from his mouth
the bitter brine which flowed in streams from his
head. Yet even so he did not forget his raft, in evil
case though he was, but sprang after it amid the
waves, and laid hold of it, and sat down in the midst
of it, seeking to escape the doom of death; and a
great wave ever bore the raft this way and that along
{ts course. As when in autumn the North Wind bears
the thistle-tufts over the plain, and close they cling
to one another, so did the winds bear the raft this
                                                   193

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_214>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 331-357
way and that over the sea, Now the South Wind
‘would fling it to the North Wind to be driven on,
and now again the East Wind would yield it to the
West Wind todrive.
   But the daughter of Cadmus, Ino of the fair
ankles, saw him, even Leueothea, who of old was a
mortal of human speech, but now in the deeps ofthe
sea has won a share of honour from the gods. She
‘was touched with pity for Odysseus, as he wandered
and was in sore travail, and she rose up from the
deep like αὶ sea-mew on the wing, and sat on the
stoatlyboundraft and spake saying:
   Unhappy man, liow is it that Poseidon, the earth-
shaker, has conceived such furious wrath against
thee, that he is sowing for thee the seeds of many
evils? Yet verily he shall not utterly destroy thee
for all his rage. Nay, do thou thus; and methinks
thou dost not Jack understanding, Strip off these
garments, and leave thy raft to be driven by the
winds, but do thou swim with thy hands and so
strive to reach the land of the Phacacians, where it is
thy fate to escape. Come, take this veil, and stretch
it beneath thy breast. It is immortal; there is no
fear that thou shalt suffer aught or perish, But
when with thy hands thou hast laid hold of the land,
loose it from thee, and cast it into the wine-dark sea
far from the land, and thyself turn away.”
   So saying, the goddess gave him the veil, and
herself plunged again into the surging deep, like ἃ
seamewy     and the dare wave hid het. Then the
rauch-enduring, goodly Odysseus pondered, and
deeply moved he spoke to his own mighty spirit:
   “Woe is me!        Let it not be that some one of the
immortals is again weaving a snare for me, that she
                                                     195

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_216>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 358-385
bids me leave my raft. Nay, but verily 1 will not
yet obey, for afar off mine eyes beheld the land,
Where she said I was to escape. But this will I
do, and meseems that this is best: as long as the
timbers hold firm in their fastenings, so long will
I remain here and endure to suffer affiction; but
when the wave shall have shattered the raft to
pieces, I will swim, seeing that there is naught
Detter to devise.”
    ‘While he pondered thus in mind and heart, Posei-
don, the earth-shaker, made to rise up a great wave,
@read and grievous, arching over from above, and
drove it upon him. And as when ἃ strong ‘wind
tosses a heap of straw that is dry, and some it seat
ters here, some there, even so the wave scattered
the long timbers of the raft. But Odysseus bestrode
‘one plank, as though he were riding horse, and
stripped off the garments which beautiful Calypso
had given him. ‘Then straightway he stretched the
veil beneath his breast, and flung himself headlong
   to the sea with hands outstretched, ready to swim.
And the lord, the eatth-shaker, saw him, and he
shook his head, and thus he spoke to his own
heart:
   “So now, after thou hast suffered many ills, go
wandering over the deep, till thou comest among
the folk fostered of Zeus, Yet even so, methinks,
thou shalt not make any mock at thy suffering.”
   So saying, he lashed his fair-maned horses, and
‘came to Aegae, where is his glorious palace.
   ‘Bat Athene, daughter of Zeus, took other counsel.
She stayed the paths of the other winds, and bade
them all cease and be lulled to rest; but she roused
the swift North Wind, andbroke the waves before
                                                  197

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_218>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 386-413
«him, to the end that Zeus-born Odysseus might come
  among the Phaeacians, lovers of the oar, escaping
  from death and the fates.
     Then fortwo nights and two days he was driven
  about overtheswollen waves, and full often his heart
  forboded destruction. But when fair-tressed Dawn
  Drought to its birth the third day, then the wind
  ceased and there was a windless calm, and he caught
  sight of the shore close at hand, casting a quick
  glance forward, as he was raised up by a great wave.
  ‘And even as when most welcome to his children
  appears the life of ἃ father who lies in sickness,
  bearing grievous pains, long while wasting away, and
  some eruel god assnils him, but then to their joy
  the gods free him from his woe,soto Odysseus did
  ‘the land and the wood seem weleome; and he swam
  on, eager to set foot on the land. But when he was
  as far away as a man’s voice exrries when he shouts,
  and heard the boom of the sea upon the reefs—for
  the great wave thundered against the dry land,
  belching upon it in terrible fashion, and all things
  ‘were wrapped in the foam of the sea; for there were
  neither harbours where ships might ride, nor road-
  steads, but projecting headlands, and reefs, and cliffs
  —then the knees of Odysseus were loosened and his
  heart melted, and deeply moved he spoke to his own
  mighty spirit:
     "Ah me, whenZeus hasatlength granted metosee
  the land beyond my hopes, and lo, Ihave prevailed
  to cleave my way and to cross this gulf, nowhere
  doth there appear a way tocome forth fom the grey
  sea. For without are sharp crags, and around them
  ‘the wave roars foaming, and the rock runs up sheer,
  and the water is deep close in shore, so that in no
                                                     199

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_220>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 414-441
wise is it possible to plant both feet firmly and escape
ruin. Haply were I to seek to land, αὶ great wave
may seize me and dash me against the jagged rock,
andsoshall my striving be in vain, But if I swim
on yet further in hope to find shelving beaches} and
harbours of the sea, I fear me lest the storm-wind
may catch me up again, and bear me, groanin;
heavily, over the teeming deep; or lest some g
may even send forth upon me some great monster
from out the sea—and many such does glorious
Amphitrite breed. For I know that the glorious
Earth-shaker is filled with wrath against me.”
   While he pondered thus in mind and heart,agreat,
wave bore him against the ragged shore.” There
‘would his skin have been stripped off and his bones
broken, had not the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene,
puta thought in his mind. On he rushed and seized
the rock with both hands,andclung to it, groaning,
until the great wave went by. Thus then did he
‘escape this wave, but in its backward flow it once
more rushed upon him and smote him,and flung him
far out in the sea. And just as, when a cuttlefish is
dragged from its hole, many pebbles cling to its
suckers, even sofrom his strong hands were bits of
skin stripped off against the rocks; and the great
‘wave covered him. ‘Then verily would hapless Odys-
seus have perished beyond his fate, had not flashing-
eyed Athene given him prudence. Making his way
forth from the surge where it belched upon the
shore, he swam outside, looking ever toward the
land in hope to find shelving beaches and harbours
of the sea. But when, as he swam, he came to the
mouth of a fair-fowing river, where seemed tohim
      2Possibly “shores that take the waves aslant.”

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_222>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 442-466
the best place, since it was smooth of stones, and
besides there was shelter from the wind, he knew
the river as he flowed forth, and prayed to him in
his heart:
   “Hear me, O king, whosoever thon art. As to
one greatly longed-for' do I come to thee, seeking
to escape from out the sea from the threats of
Poseidon. Reverend even in the eyes of the im-
mortal gods is that man who comes as a wanderer,
even as I have now come to thy stream and to
thy knees, after many toils. Nay,pityme,Oking,
for J declare that Γ am thy suppliant.”
   So he spoke, and the god straightway stayed his
stream, and checked the waves, and made ἃ calm
before him, and brought him safely to the mouth of
the river. "And he let his two knees bend and his
strong hands fall, for his spirit was crushed by the
sea. And all his flesh was swollen, and sea water
flowed in streams up through his mouth and nostrils.
So he lay breathless and speechless, with scarce
strength to move; for terrible weariness had come
upon him. But when he revived, and his spirit re-
‘turned again into his breast, then he loosed fromhim
the veil of the goddess and let it fall into the river
that murmyred seaward; and the great wave bore it
back down the stream, and straightway Ino received
itin her hands. But Odysseus, going back from the
river, sank down in the reeds and kissed the earth,
the giver of grain; and deeply moved he spoke to
his own mighty sp
    “Ab, woe is me! what is to befall me? What
will happen to me at the last? If here in the river
bed I keep watch throughout the weary night, I fear
         5. On, “towhom many prayers are made.”
                                                   203

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_224>>>
THE ODYSSEY, V. 467-493
that together the bitter frost and the fresh dew may
overcome me, when from feebleness I have breathed
forth my spirit; andthe breeze from the river blows
cold in the early morning. But if I climb up the
slope to the shady wood and lie down to rest in the
thick brushwood, in the hope that the cold and
‘weariness might leave me, and if sweet sleep eomes
‘over me, I fear me lest I becomeaprey und spoil
to wild beasts.”
   ‘Then, as he pondered, this thing seemed to him
the better: he went his way to the wood and found
it near the water in a clear space; and he erept
beneath two bushes that grew from ‘the same spot,
‘one of thorn and one of olive. Through these the
strength of the wet winds could never blow, nor the
rays of the bright sun beat, nor could the rain pierce
through them, so closely did they grow,intertwining
one with the other, Beneath these Odysseus erept
‘and straightway gathered with his hands a broad
bed, for fallen leaves were there in plenty, enough
to shelter two men or three in winter time, however
bitter the weather. And the much-enduring goodly
Ouysseus saw it,and was glad, and he lay down in
the midst, and heaped over him the fallen leaves
And as a man hides a brand beneath the dar}
embers in an outlying farm, aman who has no neigh-
ours, and so saves a seed of fire, that he may not
have to kindle it from some other source, so Odysseus
covered himself with leaves. And Athene shed sleep
upon his eyes, that it might enfold his lids and
speedily free him from toilsome weariness,

                                                  205

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_226>>>
BOOK      VI

   So he lay there asleep, the much-enduring goodly
Odysseus, overcome with sleep and weariness; but
Atliene went to the land and eity of the Phaescians.
‘These dwelt of old in spacious Hypereia hard by the
Cyclopes, men overweening in pride who plundered
them continually and were mightier than they.
From thence Nausithous, the goulike, had removed
them, and led and settled them in Scheria far from
men that live by toil. About the city he had drawn
‘a wall, he hed built houses and made temples for
the gods, and divided the ploughlands; but he, ere
now, had been stricken by fate and had gone to the
house of Hades, and Alcinous was now king, made
wise in counsel by the gods, To his house went
the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, to contrive the
return of great-hearted Odysseus.’ She went to a
chamber, richly wrought, wherein slept « maiden
like the immortal goddesses in form and comeliness,
Nausicaa, the daughter of great-hearted Aleinous;
hard by slept two hand-maidens, gifted with beauty
by the Graces, one on either side of the door-posts,
and the bright doors were shut,
   But like abreath of air the goddess sped to the
‘couch of the maiden, and stood above her head, and
    ske to her, taking the form of the daughter of
        5 famed for his ships, a girl who was of like
                                                 407

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_228>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 23-50
 age with Nausicaa, and was dear to her heart.
 Likening herself to hex, the flashing-eyed Athene
 spoke and said.
    “Nausfean, how comes it that thy mother bore
 thee so heediess? Thy bright raiment is lying un-
 cared for; yet thy marriage is near at hand, when
 thou must needs thyself be clad in fair garments,
 and give other such to those who escort thee. It is,
 from things like these, thou knowest, that good
 report goeth up among men, andythe father and
 honoured mother rejoice. Nay, come, let us go to
 wash them at break of day, for 1 will follow with
 thee to aid thee, that thow mayest with speed make
 thee ready ; for thou shalt not Jong remain a maiden.
 Even now thou hast suitors in the land, the noblest
of all the Phaeacians, from whom is thine own line-
age. Nay, come, bestir thy noble father early this
morning that he make ready mules and a waggon
for thee, to bear the girdles and robes and bright
coverlets. And for thyself, too, itis far more seemly
to go thus than on.foot, for the washing tanks are
far from the city.”
    So saying, the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene,
departed to Olympus, where, they say,isthe abode
of the gods that stands fast forever. |Neither is it
shaken by winds nor ever wet with rain, nor does
snow fall upon it, but the air is outspread clear and
cloudless, and over it hovers ἃ radiant. whiteness.
‘Therein the blessed gods are glad all their days, and
thither went the flashing-eyed one, when she had
spoken all her word to the maiden.
   ‘Atonce thencame fair-throned    Dawnandawakened
Nausicaa of the beautiful robes, and straightway she
marvelled at her dream, and went through the house
                                                    209
   vou. αν                                   ca

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_230>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 51-76
 to tell her parents, her father dear and her mother;
 and she found them both within. The mother sat
 at the hearth with her handmaidens, spinning the
yarn of purple dye, and her father she met as he was
      ing forthtojoin the glorious kingsin the place of
 Souneil, to which the lordly Phacacians called him,
 But she came up close to her dear father, and said:
      Papa dear, wilt thou not make ready for me a
 waggon, high and stout of wheel, that I may take to
the river for washing the goodly raiment of mine
which is lying here soiled? Moreover for thyself it
is seemly that when thou art at council with the
prinees thou shouldst have clean raiment upon thee;
and thou hast five sons living in thy halls—two are
wedded, but three are sturdy bachelors—and these
ever wish to put on them freshly-washed raiment,
when they go to the dance, Of all this must I take
thought.”
     Sorshe spoke, for she was ashamed to name gla
some? marriage to her father; but he understood all,
and answered, saying: “Neither the mules do I be-
grudge thee, my child, nor aught beside. Go thy
way; the slaves shall make ready for thee the
waggon, high and stout of wheel and fitted with a
box above.”?
     With this he called to the slaves, and they
hearkened. Outside the palace they made ready the
light-running mule wagon, and led up the mules and
yoked them to it; and the maiden brought from her
‘chamber the bright raiment, and placed it upon the
polished car, while her mother put in a chest food of
  ὁἢrereBrotumtlyfruits of.χα. 745 Il, fe 63.
            tipper, with
                    Othersably
                           assumesheno
                                    that theὑπεργερίη
                                                rang ge,
                                                      amnotes notan «
  awning.”
                                                             an

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_232>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 77-104
 all sorts to satisfy the heart. Therein she put dain-
 ties, and poured wine in a goat-skin flask; and the
 maiden mounted upon the waggon. Her mother
 gave her also soft olive oil in a flask of gold, that she
 and her maidens might have it for the bath. ‘Then
 Nausicaa took the whip and the bright reins, and
 smote the mules to start them; and there was a
 clatter of the mules as they sped on amain, bearing
 the raiment and the maiden; neither went she alone,
 for with her went her handmaids as well.
    ‘Now when they came    tothe beautiful streams of the
 river, where were the washing tanks that never failed
 —for abundant clear water welled up from beneath.
 and flowed over, to cleanse garments however soiled
—there they loosed the mules from under the wag-
 gon and drove them along the eddying river to graze
 on the honey-sweet water-grass, and themselves took
 in their arms the raiment from the waggon, and bore
 it into the dark water, and trampled it in the trenches,
 busily vying each with each, Now when they had
 washed the garments, and had cleansed them of all
 the stains, they spread them out in rows on the shore
 of the sea where the waves dashing against the land
 washed the pebbles cleanest; and they, after they
 hhad bathed and anointed themselves richly with ofl,
 took their meal on the river's banks, and waited for
 the clothing to dry in the bright sunshine. Then
 when they had had their joy of food, she and her
 handmaids, they threw off their head-gear and fell to
 playing at ball,and white-ermed Nausicaa was leader
 in the song.’ And even as Artemis, the archer, roves
overthe mountains, alongtheridges of lofty TaYgetus
 or Erymanthus, joying in the pursuit of boars and
     Δ hey sing while tossing the ball to one another.
                                                         ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_234>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 105-133
swift deer, and with her sport the wood-nymphs, the
daughters of Zeus who bears the aegis, and Leto is
glad at heart—high above them all Artemis holds
her head and brows, and easily may she be known,
though all are fitir—so amid her handmaidens shone
‘the maid unwed.
   Bat when she was about to yoke the mules, and
fold the fair raiment, in order to return homeward,
then the goddess, flshing-eyed Athene, took other
counsel, that Odysseus might awake and see the fai
faced maid, who should lead him to the eity of the
Phackcians. So then the princess tossed the ball to
one of her maidens; the maiden indeed she missed,
but cast it into a deep eddy, and thereat they eried
aloud, and goodly Odysseus awoke, and sat up, and
thus he pondered in mind and heart:
   “Woe is me! to the land of what mortals am I
now come? Are they cruel, and wild, and unjust?
or do they love strangers and fear the gods in their
thoughts? ‘There rang in my ears a cry as of
maidens, of nymphs who haunt the towering peaks
of the mountains, the springs that feed the rivers,
and the grassy meadows! Can itbe that I am some-
where near men of human speech? Nay, I will
myself make trial and see.”
   ‘So saying the goodly Odysseus came forth from
beneath the bushes, and with his stout hand he
broke from the thick wood a leafy branch, that he
might hold it about him and hide therewith his
nakedness. Forth he came likeἃmountain-nurtured
Moa trusting im hig might, who goes forth, beaten
with rain and wind, but his two eyes are ablaze:
Into the midst of the kine he goes, or of the sheep,
or on the track of the wild deer, and his belly bids
                                                 τις

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_236>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 134-159
him go even into the close-built fold, to make an
‘attack upon the flocks. Even so Odysseus was about
to enter the company of the fair-tressed maidens,
naked though he was, for need had come upon him.
Bat terrible did he seem to them, all befouled with
brine, and they shrank in fear, one here, one there,
along the jutting sand-spits. Alone the daughter of
‘Alcinous kept her place, for in her heart Athene put
‘courage, and took fear from her limbs. She fled not,
but stood and faced him; and Odysseus pondered
whether he should elasp the knees of the fair-faced
maid, and make his prayer, or whether, standing
apartashe was, he should beseech her with gentle
words, in hope that she might show him the city
‘and give him raiment. And, as he pondered, it
seemed to him better to stand apart and beseech her
with gentle words, lest the maiden’s heart should be
wroth with him if he clasped her knees; so straight
way he spoke a gentle word and craft
    “T beseech thee, O queen,—a goddess art thou,
or art thou mortal? If thou art a goddess, one
of those who hold broad heaven, to Artemis, the
  laughter of great Zeus, do 1 liken thee most nearly
in comeliness and in stature and in form. But if
thou art one of mortals who dwell upon the earth,
thrice-blessed then are thy father and thy honoured
mother, and thrice-blessed thy brethren. Full well,
I ween, are their hearts ever warmed with joy
Decause of thee, as they see thee entering the
dance, a plant? so fair. But he again is blessed. in
heart ‘above all others, who shall prevail with his
gifts of wooing and lead thee to his home, For
‘havineyard
the     our sons
             of themay Pordbe ofas plants”;
                                    Hosta fs thand Leaiahof v.
                                                house          7, ‘For
                                                            Tract,  and
‘he men of Judah his pleasant plant.”                              217

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_238>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 160-185
 never yet have mine eyes looked upon a mortal
 toch a2thot, whether man or woman; ameseiment
 holds me a8 T look on thee, OF a truth in Delos
 onceIsaw such a thing, a young shoot of a palm
 springing up beside the altarofApollo~for thither,
 too, f went, and much people followed with me,
 on ‘that journey on which evil woes were to be
 my portion ;—even so, when I saw that, I marvelled
 long at heart, for never yetdid such a tre goring
up from the eart               fn like manner, lady, do
 ΤΩΝ ev μι τοῦsat uecd aad ce greatly
to touch thy knees; but sore grief has come upon
me. Yesterday, on the twentieth day, I escaped
from the wine-dark sea, but ever until then the
wave and the swift winds bore me from the island
of Ogygia; and now fate has east me ashore here,
that Here too, haply, I may suffer some ill. For not
yet, methinks, will my troubles cease, but the gods
ere that will bring many to pass. Nay, O queen,
have pity;; for it is to thee first that I am come after
many grievous toils, and of the others who possess
this city and land I know not one. Shew me the
city, and give me some rag to throw about me, if
thos ‘hadst any ‘wrapping’ for the “clothes when
thou camest hither. And for thyself, may the
gods grant thee all that thy heart desires; a
husband and a home ma they grant the, and
oneness of heart—a goodly gift. For nothing is
greater or better than this, When man and wife
divell in ἃ home in one aeord ἃ great grief to their
foes and a joy to their friends; but they know it?
best themselves.”
   2 Lit, “they hear.” This uso of κλύω is quite without
perc,                                        Ξ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_240>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 186-212"
    ‘Then white-armed Nausicaa answered him :
 “Stranger, since thou seemest to be neither an
 evil man nor a witless, and it is Zeus himself, the
 Olympian, that gives happy fortune to men, both to
the good and the evil, to each man as he will; 80
to thee, I ween, he has given this lot, and thou
must in any case endure it. But now, since thou
hast come to our eity and land, thou shalt not lack
clothing or aught else of those things which befit
‘a.sore-tried suppliant when he cometh in the way.
‘The eity will I shew thee, and will tell thee the
name of the people. ‘The Phneacians possess this city
and land, and I'am the daughter of great-hearted
Allcinous, upon whom depend the might and power
of the Phacacians.’
    She spoke, and called to her fair-tressed hand-
maids: Stand, my maidens. Whither do ye flee
at the sight οἷα man? Ye do not think, ‘surely,
that he iSan enemy? That mortal man lives not,
or exists! nor shall ever be born who shall come
to the land of the Phaeacians as a foeman, for we
are very dear to the immortals, Far off we dwell in
the surging sea, the furthermost of men,and no other
mortals have dealings with us. Nay, this is some
hapless wanderer that has come hither. Him must
we now tend; for from Zeus are all strangers and
beggars, and a gift, though small, is weleome.
Come, then, my maidens, give to the stranger food
and drink, and bathe him in the river in a spot
where there is shelter from the wind.”
    So she spoke, and they halted and called to each
other.. Then they set Odysseus in a sheltered
   Ὁ Tho
       doubtful word διερόν ishere taken tomean ‘living™
(Aina, Ga)                   48 Boryunk bee diferent
                                                   21

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_242>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 213-240
place, as Nausicaa, the daughter of greathearted
Aleinous, bade, and beside him they put a cloak and
‘tunic for raiment, and gave him soft olive oil in the
flask of gold, and ‘bade him bathe in the streams
of the river. Then among the maidens spoke goodly
Odysseus: “Maidens, stand yonder apart, that by
myself I may wash the brine from my. shoulders,
‘and anoint myself with olive ofl;for of a truth it
is long since oil came near my skin. But in your
presence will I not bathe, for Tam ashamed to make
me naked in the midst of fair-tressed maidens.”
   So he suid,and they went apart and told the
princess. But with water from the river goodlh
Odysseus washed from his skin the brine whi
clothed his back and broad shoulders, and from
his head he wiped the scurf of the unresting sea,
Bat when he had washed his whole body and
anointed himself with ofl, and had put on him the
raiment which the unwedded maid had given him,
then Athene, the daughter of Zeus, made him taller
to look upon and mightier, and from his head she
made the locks to flow in curls likeunto the hyacinth
flower. And as when a man overlays silver with
gold, @ cunning workman whom Hephaestus and
Pallas Athene have taught all manner of craft, and
fall of grace is the work he produces, even so the
goddess shed grace upon his head and shoulders.
‘Then he went apart and sat down on the shore οἱ
the sea, gleaming with beauty and grace; and the
damsel ‘marvelled at him, and spoke to her fair-
tressed handmaids, saying :
   “Listen, white-armed maidens, that I may say
soméwhat. Not without the will of all the gods
who hold Olympus does this man come among the
                                                   223

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_244>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI, 241-268
godlike Phacacians. Before he seemed to me un-
couth, but now he is like the gods, who hold broad
heaven, Would that a man such as he might be
called my husband, dwelling here, and that it might
please him here to remain, But come, my maidens ;
give to the stranger food and drink.”
    So she spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed, and set before Odysseus food and drink.
‘Then verily did the much-enduring goodly Odysseus
rink and eat, ravenously; for long had he been
without taste of food.
    But the white-armed Nausicaa took other counsel.
She folded the raiment and put it in the fair waggon,
and yoked the stout-hoofed mules, and mounted the
car hersclé. Then she hailed Odysseus, and spoke
and addressed him: Rouse thee now, stranger, to
go to the city, that I may escort thee to the house
of my wise father, where, I tell thee, thou shalt
‘come to know all the noblest of the Phacacians.
Only do thou thus, and, methinks, thou dost not
lack understanding: 80 long as we are passing
through the country and the tilled fields of men
80 thea quickly with the handmatds behind the
mules and the waggon, and I will lead the way.
But when we are about to enter the city, around
‘which runs a lofty wall,—a fair harbourlies on either
side of the city and the entrance is narrow, and
curved ships aredrawn up along the road, for they
all have stations for their ships, each man one for
himself. ‘There, too, is their place of assembly about
the fair temple of Poseidon, fitted with huge! stones
set deep in the earth. Here the men are busied
   3 Lit.“drawn thither,”or,according
                                    toothers, “quarried.”
ofxiv 1”
                                                      2:5

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_246>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 269-295
 with the tackle of their black ships, with cables and
 sails, and here they shape the thin oar-blades. For
 the Phaeacians care not for bow or quiver, but for
 masts and oars of ships, and for the shapely ships,
 rejofeing in which they cross over the grey sea. It
 is their ungentle speech that I shun, lest hereafter
 some man should taunt me, for indeed there are
 insolent folk in the land, and thus might some
baser fellow say, should he mect us: «Who is this
that follows Neusfcaa, a comely man and tall, a
stranger? Where did she find him? He wi
@oubtiess be a husband for her. Haply she has
brought from his ship some wanderer of a folk that
well afar—for none are near us—or some god,
long prayed-for, has come down from heaven in
answer to her prayers, and she will have him as her
husband all her days. Better so, even if she has
herself gone forth and found a husband from another
people; for of a truth she scorns the Phaeacians here
im the land, where she has wooers many and noble!”
So will they say, and this would become a reproach
tome. Yea, I would myself blame another mafden
who should do such thing, and in despite of her
dear father and mother, while yet they live, should
consort with men before the day of open marria,
Nay, stranger, do thou quickly hearken to my words,
that with all speed thou mayest win from my father
an escort and a return to thy land. Thou wilt find
ἃ        goodly grove of Athene hard by the road, agrove
of poplar trees. In it a spring wells up, andround
aboutisameadow. There is my father's park and
fruitful vineyard, as far from the city as a man's
        carries when he shouts. Sit thou down there,
and wait for a time, until we come to the city and
                                                     227

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_248>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 296-325
  reach the house of my father. But when
 thinkest that we have reached the house, thenthoudo
 thou go to the eity of the Phacacians
 the house of my father, great-heartedandAleinous.   ask for
 Easily may it be kuown, and a child could guide
 thee, a mere babe; for the houses of the Phacacians
 are no wise built of such sort as is the palace of the
 lord Aleinous. But when the house and the
 enclose thee, pass quickly through the great court     hall,
 ἘΠῚ thou comest to my mother, who sits at the hearth
 in the light of the fire, spinning the purple yarn, a
 wonder to behold, leaning against ἃ pillar, and         her
 handinaids sit behind her. ‘There, too, leaning against
 the selfsame pillar, is set the throne of my father,
 whereon he sits and quaffs his wine, like unto
 immortal. Him pass thou by, and cast thy handsan
 about my mother’s knees, that thou mayest quickly
 see with rejoicing the day of thy retum,
 thou art come from never so far. If in herthough
 thou dost win favour, then there is hope that sight   thou
 wilt see thy friends, and return tothy well-built house
and unto thy native land.”
    So saying, she smote the mules with the
whip, and they quickly left the streams of theshining river.
Well did they trot, well did they ply their amblin
feet,} andshe drove with care that the maidens an
Odysseus might follow on foot, and with judgment
did she ply the lash. Then the sun set, and they
came to the glorious grove, sacred toAthene. There
Odysseus sat him down, and straightway prayed to
the daughter of great Zeus: Hear me, child of       aegis-
bearing Zeus, unweatied one. Hearken now to my
prayer, since aforetime thou didst not hearken when
   2 "The word πλίσσοντο is doubtless connected with πλέκω,
but the rendering     choald ot be made to pester"

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_250>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 356-331:
 I was smitten, what time the glorious Barth-shaker
 smote me. Grant that Imay come to the Phacacians
 as one to be welcomed and to be pitied.”
    So he spoke in prayer, and Pallas Athene heard
 him; but she did not yet appear to him face to
face, for she feared her father’s brother; but he
 furiously raged against godlike Odysseus, until at
 length he reached his own land.




                                               8231

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_252>>>
BOOK       VII

    So he       prayed there, the much-enduring goodly
 Odyssens! while ‘the two strong. mules, bore. the
 maiden to the city. But when she had come to
 the glorious palace of her father, she halted the
 mules at the outer gate, and her brothers thronged
 about her, men like the immortals, and loosed the
 mules from the waggon, and bore the raiment
 within and she herself went toher chamber. There
 ἃ fire was kindled for her by her waiting-woman,
 ‘Eurymedusa, an aged dame from Apeiré. Long ago
 the curved ships had brought her from Apeiré, and
 men had chosen her from the spoil as a gift of
 honour for Aleinous, for that he was king over all
 the Phaeacians, and the people hearkened to him
 as toa god. She it was-who had reared the white-
 armed Nausicaa in the palace, and she it was who
 Kindled the fire for her, and made ready her supper
 in the chamber.
    Then Odysseus roused himself to go to the city,
 and Athene, with kindly purpose, east about him
 ἃ thick mist, that no one of the              great-hearted
 Phaetcians, meeting ‘him, should ἀρεῖς mockingly
 to him, and ask him who he was. But when he
 vwas about to enter the lovely city, then the goddess,
 flashing-eyed Athene, met him in the guise of a
‘young maiden carrying a pitcher, and she stood before
 him ;and goodly Odysseus questioned her, saying:
                                                        233

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_254>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIL 22-48
   “My child, couldst thou not guide me to the
house of him they call Aleinous, who is lord among
the people here? For Iam come hither a stranger
sore-tried from afar, from a distant coantry ;where-
fore I know no one of the people who possess this
city and land.”
   ‘Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: Then verily, Sir stranger, I will shew thee
the palace as thou dost bid me, for it lies hard
by the house of my own noble father. Only go
thou quietly, and 1 will lead the way. But turn not
‘thine eyes upon any man nor question any, for the
men here endure not stranger-folk, nor do they give
kindly welcome to him who comes from another
land. They, indeed, trusting in the speed of their
swift ships, cross over the great gulf of the sea,
for this the Karth-shaker has granted them; and
their ships are swift asa bird on the wing or as
a thought.”                  -
   So speaking, Pallas Athene led the way quickly,
and he followed in the footsteps of the goddess.
‘And as he went through the city in the midst of
them, the Phaeacians, famed for their ships, took
no heed of him, for fair-tressed Athene, the dread
goddess, would ‘not suffer it, but shed about him
a wondrous mist, for her heart was kind toward him.
‘And Odysseus marvelled at the harbours and the
stately ships, at the meeting-places where the heroes
themselves gathered, and the walls, long and high
and erovued with palsades, «wonder to behold,
But when they had come to the glorious palace of
the king, the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, was
the first to speak, sayin,
   “Here, Sir stranger, is the house which thou
                                                  235

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_256>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIL. 49-77
didst bid me shew to thee, and thou wilt find the
kings, fostered of Zeus, feasting at the banquet. Go
thou within, and let thy heart fear nothing; for a
bold man is better in all things, though he be a
stranger from another land. ‘The queen shalt thou
approach first in the palace; Arete is the name by
which she is called, and she is sprang from the same
line as is the king Alcinous. Nausithous at the first
was born from the earth-shaker Poseidon and Peri-
boes, the comeliest of women, youngest daughter of
great-hearted Eurymedon, who once was king over
the insolent Giants. But he brought. destruction
on his froward people, and was himself destroyed.
Bat with Periboca lay Poseidon and begat a son,
great-hearted Nausithous, who ruled over the Phae-
feians ; and Nausithous begat Rhexenor     andAleinous.
Rhexenor, when as yet he had no son, Apollo ofthe
silver bow smote in his hall, a bridegroom though
he was, and he left only one daughter, Arete. Her
Alcinous made his wife, and honoured her as no
‘other woman on earth is honoured, of all those who’
in these days direct their houscholds in subjection
to their husbands ;so heartily is she honoured, and
hhas ever been, by her children and by Alcinous
imselfandby the people, who Jook upon heras        upon
ἃ goddess, and greet her as she goes through the
city. For she of herself isno wise lacking in good
understanding, and for the women? to whom she
hhas good will she makes an end of strife even
among their husbands. If in her sight thou dost
‘win favour, then there is hope that thou wilt see thy
friends, and return to thy high-roofed house and unto
thy native land.”
   Or, reading εἶσι, ‘settlen the quarrelsofthose
                                                towhom
she basgood will, ven though they be men.”
                                                     437

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_258>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 78-105
     So saying, flashing-eyed Athene departed over
 the unresting sea, and left lovely Scheria. She
 ‘came to Marathon’ and broad-wayed Athens, and
 entered the well-built house of Ereetheus;} but
 Odysseus went to the glorious palace of Aleinous.
 There he stood, and his heart pondered much before
 he reached the threshold of bronze;for there was
 αι gleam as of sun or moon over the high-roofed
 house of great-hearted Aleinous. Of bronze were
 the walls that stretched this way and that from the
 threshold to the innermost chamber, and around
 was a cornice of eyanus? Golden were the doors
 that shut in the well-built house, and doorposts
 of silver were set in ἃ threshold of bronze. Of
 silver was the lintel above, and of gold the handle.
 On either side of the door there stood gold and
silver dogs, which Hephaestus had fashioned with
eunning skill to guard the palace of great-hearted
 Alcinous; immortal were they and ageless all their
days! Within, seats were fixed along the wall on
either hand, from the threshold to the innermost
chamber, and on them were thrown robes of soft
fabric, cunningly woven, the handiwork of women.
On these the leaders of the Phaeacians were wont
to sit drinking and eating, for they had unfailing
store. And golden youths stood on well-built
pedestals, holding lighted torches in their hands
to give light by night tothe banqueters inthe hal
And fifty slave-women he had in the house, of
‘whom some grind the yellow grain on the mill-
stone, and others weave webs, or, as they sit, twirl
 + The dogs,
μον    οἴτω though wroughtPiieatans
             av, “Dies      of gold dein
                                    and silver,flyare
                                                  239

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_260>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 106-132
 the yam, like unto the leaves? ofa tall poplar tree:
 and from the closely-woven linen the soft olive oil
 drips down? Forasthe Phaeacian men are skilled
 above all otiiers in speedin      g ship upon the sea,
                                aswift
 so are the women cunning workers at the loom, for
 Athene has given to them above all others. kill
 in fair handiwork, and an. understanding heart.
 But without the courtyard, hard by the door, is a
 great orchard offour acres, and      ἃhedge rons about
 it on either side. ‘Therein grow trees, tall and
 luxuriant, pears and pomegranates and apple-trees
 with theit bright fruit, and swect figs, and luxuriant
 olives. Of these the fruit perishes not nor fuils in
 winter oF in summer, but lasts throughout the years
and ever does the west wind, as it blows, quicken to
life some fruits, and ripen others; pear upon pear
waxes ripe, apple upon apple, cluster upon. luster,
and fig upon fig. ‘There, to , is his fruitful vine-
yard planted, one part of which, a warm spot on
level ground, is being dried in the sun, while other
‘grapes men are gathering, and others, too, they are
treading; but in front are unripe grapes’ that are
shedding the blossom, and others that are turning
purple. There again, by the last row of the vines,
grow trim garden beds of every sort, blooming the
year through, and therein are two springs, one of
which sends its water throughout, all the garden,
while the other, over against it, flows beneath the
threshold of the court toward the high house; from
this the townsfolk drew their water. Such were the
glorious gifts of the gods in the palace of Aleinous.
                     Others assume the meaning to bo that
                   ly woven that oflwill not soakthrough i,
   3 The word appears to mean 8 atretch of four
(morninge’) ploughing.
    vou αν                                        ἃ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_262>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VI. 133-159
    There the much-enduring goodly Odysseus stood
and gazed. But when he had marvelled in his heart
at all things, he passed quickly over the threshold
   ito the house. ‘There he.found the leaders and
counsellors of the Phaeacians pouring libations from
their cups to the keen-sighted Argetphontes, to
whom they were wont to pour the wine last of all,
when they were minded to go totheir rest. But
the much-enduring goodly Odysseus went through
the hall, wrapped in the thick mist which Athene
hhad shed about him, till he came to Arete and to
Aleinous the king. About the knees of Arete
Odysseus cast his hands, and straightway the
wondrous mist melted from him, and a hush fell
upon all that were in the room at sight of the man,
and they marvelled as they looked upon him. But.
Odysseus made his prayer:
    Arete, daughter of godlike Rhexenor, to thy
husband and to thy knees am I come after many
toils—aye and to these banqueters, to whom may
the gods grant happiness in life, and may each of
them hand down to his children the wealth in. his
halls, and the dues of honour which the people have
given him. But for me do ye speed my sending,
that 1 may come to my native land, and that
guicklys for Jong tie have T been aufering woes
 far from my friends.”
    So saying he sat down on the hearth in the ashes
by the fire, and they were all hushed in silence.
Butat length there spoke among them the old lord
Echeneiis, who was an elder among the Phaeacians,
well skilled in speech, and’ understanding all the
wisdom of old. He with good intent addressed the
assembly, and said: “ Alcinous, lo, this is not the
                                                 243

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_264>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII, 160-185
better way, nor is it seemly, that    ἃstranger should
sit upon the ground on the hearth in the ashes;
but these others hold back waiting for thy word.
Come, make the stranger to arise, and set him upon
a silver-studded chair, and bid the heralds mix wine,
that we may pour libations also to Zeus, who hurls
the thunderbolt; for he ever attends upon reverend
suppliants, And let the housewife give supper to
the stranger of the store that is in the house.
   When the strong and mighty Alcinous heard this,
he took by the hand Odysseus, the wise and crafty:
minded, and raised him from the hearth, and set
him upon a bright chair from which he bade his
son, the kindly? Lnodamas, to vise; for he sat next to
hhim, and was his best beloved. ‘Then a handmaid
Drovight water for the hands in a fair pitcher of gold,
and poured it over a silver basin, for him towash,
and beside him drew up ἃ polished table. And
the grave housewife brought and set before him
read, and therewith dainties in abundance, giving
freely of her store. So the much-enduring’ goodly
Odysseus drank and ate; and then the mighty
Aleinous spoke to the herald, and said :
   * Pontonous, mix the bowl, and serve wine to all
in the hall, that we may pour libations also to Zeus,
who hurls the thunderbolt ;for he ever attends upon
reverend suppliants.
   He spoke, and Pontonous mixed the honey-
hearted wine, and served out to all, pouring first
drops for libation into the cups. But when they
hhad poured libations, and had drunk to their heart’
content, Aleinous addressed the assembly, and
spoke among them :
       +‘The word is commonly rendered “ valiant.”
                                                    245

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_266>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 186-216
   “Harken to me, leaders and counsellors of the
Phaeacians, that I may say what the heart in my
breast bids me. Now that ye have finished your
feast,goeach of you to his house to rest. But in
the morningwewill call more ofthe elders together,
and will entertain the stranger in our halls and offer
goodly victims to the gods. After that we will take
thought also of his sending, that without. toil or
pain yon stranger may under    oursending, come to his
native land speedily and with rejoicing, though he
come from never so fur. Nor shall he meanwhile
soffer any evil or harm, until he sets foot upon his
‘own land; but thereafter he shall suffer whatever
Fate and the dread Spinners spun with their thread
for him at his birth, when his mother bore him. But
if he is one of the immortils come down from heaven,
then is this some new thing which the gods are
planning ;for ever heretofore have they been wont
to appear to us in manifest form, when we sacrifice
to them glorious heestombs, and they feast among
us, sitting even where we sit. Aye, and if one of
us as a lone wayfarer meets them, they use no con-
cealment, for we are of near kin to them, as are the
Cyclopes and the wild tribes of the Giants.”
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: Aleinous, far from thee be that thought ;
for 1 am not like the immortals, who hold broad
heaven, either in stature or in form, but like mortal
men. Whomsoever ye know among men who
bear greatest burden of woe, to them might I liken
myself in my sorrows. Yea, and I could tell a yet
longer tale of all the evils which I have endured by
the will of the gods. But as for me, suffer me now
to eat, despite my grief; for there is nothing more
                                                  247

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_268>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 217-243
 shameless than a hateful belly, which bids a man
 perforce take thought thereof, be he never so sore
 distressed and laden with grief at heart, even as
 1, too, am laden with grief at heart, yet ever does
 my belly bid me eat and drink, and makes me forget
 all that I have suffered, and commands me to eat
 my fill. But do ye make haste at break of day,
 that ye may set nie, hapless one, on the soil of my
 native land, even after my many woes. Yea, let
 life leave me, when I have seen once more my
 possessions, my slaves, and my great high-oofed
  house.
    So he spoke, and they all praised his words, and
 bade send the stranger on his way, since he had
 spoken fittingly.     ‘Then when they had poured
 libations, and had drunk to their heart's eontent,
 they went each man to his home, to take their rest,
and goodly Odysseus was left behind in the hall,
and beside him sat Arete and godlike Alcinous; and
the handmaids cleared away the dishes of the feast.
‘Then white-armed Arete was the first to speak; for,
as she saw it, she knew his fair raiment, the mantle
and tunic, which she herself had wrought with her
handmaids. And she spoke, and addressed him
with winged words:
    “Stranger, this question will I myself ask thee
first. Who art thou among men, and from whence?
Who gave thee this raiment? Didst thou not say
that thou camest hither wandering over the sea?”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Hard were it, Ὁ queen, to tell to the end
the tale of my woes, since full many have the
heavenly gods given me. But this will 1 tell thee,
of which thou dost ask and enquire. ‘There is at
                                                 249

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_270>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 244-273
isle, Ogygia, which lies far off in the sea. Therein
dwells the fair-tressed daughter of Atlas, guileful
Calypso, adread goddess, and with her no one either
of gods or mortals hath aught to do; but me in my
wretchedness did fate bring to her hearth alone,
for Zeus had smitten my swift ship with his bright
thunderbolt, and had shattered it in the midst of
the wine-dark sea. There all the rest of my trusty
comrades perished, but 1 clasped in my arms the
keel of my curved ship and was borne drifting for
nine days, and on the tenth black night the gods
brought me to the isle, Ogygia, where the fair
tressed Calypso dwells, a dread goddess. She took
me to her home with kindly welcome, and gave me
food, and said that she would make me immortal
‘and ageless all my days; but she could never per-
suade the heart in my breast. There for seven years’
space I remained continually, and ever with my tears
would I wet the immortal raiment which Calypso
   wve me. Butwhen the eighth year came in circlin,
Stave, then she roared aseend bode me gos eitherbee
cause of some message from Zeus, or because her own
mind was tumed. And she sent me on my way on
ἃ raft, stoutly bound, and gave me abundant store of
bread and sweet wine, and clad me in immortal
raiment, and sent forth a gentle wind and warm.
So for seventeen days I sailed over the sea, and on
the eighteenth appeared the shadowy mountains of
your land;and my heart was glad, ill starred that 1
was; for verily I was yet to have fellowship with
great woe, which Poseidon, the earth-shaker, sent
upon me. Forhe stirred up the winds against me and
stayed my course, and wondrously roused the sea,
                                              251

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_272>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Vil. 274-209
  nor would the wave suffer me to be borne upon my
  raft, as I groaned ceaselessly. My raft indeed the
  storm shattered, but by swimming I clove my way
  through yon gulf of the sea, until the wind and the
  waves, a8 they bore me, brought me toyour shores,
  There, had 1 sought to land, the waves would have
 hurled me upon the shore, and dashed me against
 the great crags and a cheerless place, but I gave
 way, and swam back until I came to a river, where
 seemed to me the best place, since it was smooth of
 rocks, and besides there was shelter from the wind,
  Forth then I staggered, and sank down, gasping for
 breath, and immortal night eame on. ‘Then I went
 forth from the heaven-led river, and Tay down to
 sleep in the bushes, gathering leaves about me; and
 ἃ god shed over me infinite sleep. So there among
 the leaves I slept, my heart sore stricken, the whole
 night through, until the morning and until midday ;
 and the sun tumed to his setting? ere sweet sleep
 released me. Then I saw the handmaids of thy
 avghter on the shore at play, and amid them was
 she, fair as the goddesses. ΤῸ her I made my
 prayers and she in no wise failed in good under-
 standing,todo as thou wouldst not deem that one
 ‘of younger years would do on meeting thee; for
 younger folk are ever thoughtless. She gave bread
in plenty and flaming wine, and bathed me in the
river, and gave me this raiment. Inthis, for all my
sorrows, have I told thee the truth.’
    Then in tum Alcinous answered him, and said:
“Stranger, verily my daughter was not minded
   2 In thos rendesing eer 1 hve attampted tomost the
Aiffeulty that mostofthe eventarecordedinBook     VI.occur
fn tho datorval between the waking of Odysseus and the
Actual settingofthe sun. Hence δύσττο in impossible.
                                                      253

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_274>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIL 300-328
aright in this, that she did not bring thee to our
house withher maidens. Yet it was to her firstthat
thou didst make thy prayer.
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said :“Prince, rebuke not for this, Ipray thee, thy
blameless daughter, She did indeed bid me follow
with her maidens, but I would not for fear and
shame, Ἰδὲ haply thy heart should darken with
wrath as thou sawest its for we are quick to anger,
wwe tribes of men upon the earth.”
   And again Aleinous answered him, and sai
“Stranger, not such is the heart in my breast, to
be filled with wrath without a cause. Better is due
measure in all things. I would, O father Zeus, and
‘Athene and Apollo, that thou, so goodly ἃ man, and
 like-minded with me, wouldst have my daughter to
wife, and be called my son, and abide here; house
and possessions would I give thee, if thou shouldst
choose to remain, but against thy willshall no one of
‘the Phacacians keep thee let not that be the will
of father Zeus. But as for thy sending, that thou
mayest know it surely, I appoint a time thereto,
even the morrow. Then shalt thou lie down, over-
come by sleep, and they shall row thee over the
calm sea until thou comest to thy country and thy
house, or to whatsoever place thou wilt, aye though
it be even far beyond Euboea, which those of our
people who saw it, when they carried fairhaired
Rhadamanthus to visit Tityus, the son of Gaea, say
is the furthest of lands. Thither they went, and
without toil accomplished their journey, and on the
selfsame day came back home. So shalt thou, too,
know for thyself how far my ships are the best, and
my youths at tossing the brine with the oar-blad
                                                  255

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_276>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII, 329-347
  So said he, and the much -endurin,                 lly”
Odyeseus  was glad; and he spoke in μάγον,     and
said: “Father Zeus, grant that, Aleinous may bring
to pass all that he has said. So shall his fame be
unguenchable over the earth, the giver of grain,
ἀπά 1 shall reach my native land.”
   “Thus they-spoke to one another, and white-armed
Arete bade her maidens place ἃ bedstead under
cover of the portico, and to lay on it fair blankets of
purple, and to spread thereover coverlets, and on
these ‘to put flecey cloaks for clothing. 80 they
went forth from the hall with torches in thet hands.
But when they had busily spreed the stout-built
bedstead, they came to Odysseus, and called to him,
and said ‘Ttouse thee now, stranger, to go to thy
rests thy bed is made.”
   “Thus they spoke, and welcome did it seem to him
to lay him down to sleep. So there he slept, the
much-enduring goodly Odysseus, on the corded
bedstead under the echoing portico. But Aleinous
uj down in the inmost chamber of the lofty house,
‘and beside him lay the lady his wife, who had
strewn the couch,




                                                   257

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_278>>>
BOOK      VILL

   ‘As soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
the strong and mighty Alemous rose from his couch,
and up rose also Zeus-born Odysseus, the sacker of
cities. And the strong and mighty Aleinous led the
way to the place of assembly of the Phacncians,
whieh was builded for them hard by their ships,
Thither they came and sat down on the polished
stones close by oneanotherandPallas Athene went
throughout the city, in the likeness of the herald of
wise Aleinous, devising a return for great-hearted
Odysseus. To each man’s side she came, and spoke
and said
     Hither now, leaders and counsellors of the Phae-
‘cians, come to the place of assembly, that you may
learn of the stranger who has newly come to the
palace of wise Alcinous after his wanderings over
the sea, and in form is like unto the immortals.”
   So saying she roused the spirit and heart of each
‘man, and speedily the place of assembly and the
seats were filled with men that gathered. “And many
marvelled at the sight of the wise son of Laertes, for
‘wondrous was the grace that Athene shed upon his
hhead and shoulders; and she made him taller and
sturdier to behold, that he might be welcomed by all
the Phaeacians, and win awe and reverence, and
might accomplish the many feats wherein the Phaca-
cians made trial of Odysseus. Now when they were
                                                   259

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_280>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 24-52
assembled and met together, Aleinous addressed
their assembly and spoke among them :
   “Hearken to me, leaders and counsellors of the
 Phaeacians, that I may speak what the heart in my
breast bids me. This stranger—I know not who he
is has come to my house in his wanderings, whether
from men of the east or of the west. He urges
that he be sent on his way, and prays for assur-
ance, and Jet us on our part,as of old we were wont,
speed on his sending; for verily no man soever
who comes to my house, abides here long in sorrow
for lack of sending. Ney come, let us draw a black
ship down to the bright sea for her frst voyage, and
let men choose two and fifty youths from out the
people, even those that have heretofore been the
best. ‘And when, you have all duly lashed the oars
tothe thole-pins,t go ashore, and then go your wa}
to my house, and prepare a feast with speed; and
will provide bountifully for all. Τὸ the youths this
is my command, but do you others, the seeptred
kings, come to my fair palace, that we may entertain
yon stranger in the halls; and let no man say me
nay. And summon hither the divine minstrel,
Demodocus; for to him above all others has the god
granted skill in song, to give delight in whatever
way his spirit prompts him to sing.”
   So saying, he led the vay, and the sceptred kings
followed hit, while a heed went for the divine
minstrel. And chosen youths, two and fifty, went,
as he bade, to the shore of the unresting sea. And
when they had come down to the ship and to the
sea, they drew the black ship down to the deep
water, and placed the mast and sail in the black
          2Or " cowing-bonches,” as commonly.
                                                 261

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_282>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΨΊΠ. 53-80
 ship, and fitted the oars in the leathern thole-straps,
 all in due order, and spread the white sail. Well
 out in the roadstead they moored the ship, and then
 went their way to the great palace of the wise Alei-
 nous. Filled were the porticoes and courts and rooms
 with the men that gathered, for many there were,
 both young and old. For them Aleinous slaughtered
 twelve sheep, and eight white-tusked boars, and two
 oxen of siambling gait. ‘These they flayed and
 dressed, and made ready a goodly feast.
    ‘Then the herald drew “near, leading the good
 minstrel, whom the Muse loved above all other men,
 and gave him both good and evil; of his sight she
 deprived him, but gave him the gitt of sweet song.
 For him Pontonous, the herald, set a silver-studded
 chair in the midst of the bnqueters, leaning it
 ayainst a tall pillar, and he hung the clear-toned
 lyre from a peg close above his head, and showed
 him how to reach it with his hands.’ And beside
 him he placed a basket and a beautiful table,and a
 cup of wine, to drink when his heart should bid him.
 So they put forth their hands to the good cheer
     1g rendy before them, But when they had put
 from them the desire of food and drink,theMuse
 moved the minstrel to sing of the glorious deeds of
 warriors, fom that lay the fame whereof had then
 reached ‘broad heaven, even the quarrel of Odysseus
 and Achilles, son of Peleus, how once they strove
 with furious words at a rich feast of the gods, and
 Agamemnon, king of men, was glad at heart that
 the best of the Achaeans were quarrelling; for thus
 Phoebus Apollo, in giving his response, had told him
that it should be, in sacred Pytho, when he passed
 over the threshold of stone to enquire of the oracle.
                                                     263

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_284>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 81-109
For then the beginning of woe was rolling upon
Trojans and Danaans through the will of great Zeus.
   ‘This song the famous minstrel sang; but Odysseus
grasped his great purple cloak with his stout hands,
and drew it down over his head, and hid his comely
face; for he had shame of the Phaeacians as he let
fall tears from beneath his eyebrows. Yea, and as
often as the divine minstrel ceased his singing,
Odysseus would wipe away his tears and draw the
cloak from off his head, and taking the two-handled
‘cup would pour libations to the gods. But as often
rho eget again, and the nobles       of the Phaesciane
dae him sing, beeauso they took pleasure in his lay,
Odysseus would again cover his head and that     moan.
Now from all the rest. he concealed the tears        he
shed, but Aleinous alone marked him and took heed,
for he sat by him, and heard him groaning heavily.
And straightway he spoke among the Phacacians,
lovers of the oar:
   “ Hear me, ye leaders and counsellors of the Phae-
acians, already have we satisfied our hearts with the
equal banquet and with the lyre, which is the com-
panion of the rich feast. But now let us go forth,
And make trial of all manner of games, that yon
stranger may tell his friends, when he returns home,
how far we excel other men in boxing and wrestling
and leaping and in speed of foot.”
   ‘So saying, he led the way, and they followed him.
From the peg the herald ung the clenr-toned lyr
and took Demodocus by the hand, and led him forth
from the hall, guiding him by the self-same road by
which the others, the nobles of the Phaeacians, had
gone to gaze upon the games. They went their way
to the place of assembly, and with them went a
                                                    265

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_286>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 110-137
        ἢthrong, past counting; and uprose many noble
  youths.   ‘There rose Acroneis, and Ocyalus, and Ele:
  treus, and Nauteus, and Prymneus, and Anchialus,
  and Eretmens, and Ponteus, and Proreus, Thoon and
  Anabesineiis, and Amphialus, son of Polyneiis, son of
 Tecton ;and up rose also Euryalus, the peer of man-
 destroying Ares, the son of Naubolus, who in come=
 liness and form was the best of all the Phacacians
 after peerless Laodamas; and up rose the three sons
 of noble Aleinous, Laodamas, and Halius, and god-
 ke Clytoneiis. ‘These then first made trial in the
 foot-race: ἃ course was marked out for them from
 ‘the turning point,! and they all sped swiftly, raising
 the dust of the plain; but among them noble Clyto-
 neiis was far the best at ranning, and by as far as is
 the range? of a team of mules in fallow land, by so
 far he shot to the front and reached the host, and
 the others were left behind. Then they made trial
 of tollsome wrestling, and here in turn Euryalus
 excelled all the princes. And in leaping Amphialus
 ‘was best of all, and with the diseus again far the
 best of all was Elatreus, and in boxing     Laodamas,
 the good son of Aleinous, But when the hearts οὗ
 all had taken pleasure in the contests, Laodamas,
 the son of Aleinous, spoke among them :
     “Come, friends, let us ask yon stranger whether
 he knows and has learned any contests. In build,
surely, he is no mean man, in thighs and calves, and
in his two arms above, his stout neck, and his great
might. In no wise does he lack aught of the
strength of youth, but he has been broken by many
starting-point,”  or ‘From the start their running was
strained to the wimost.”
   the word probably denotes the length of thoforrow out
before a turn was made,
                                                     267

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_288>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 38-164
 troubles. For to my mind there is naught worse
 than the sea to confound a man, be he never so
 strong.’
     ‘And Enryalus in turn answered him, and said:
 «Laodamas, this word of thine is right fly spoken.
 Go now thyself and challenge him, and make known
 thy word.”
     ‘Now when the good son of Aleinous heard this he
 came and took his stand in the midst and spoke to
 Odysseus: Come, Sir stranger, do thou, too, make
 trial of the contests, if thou knowest any; and it,
 must be that thou knowest contests, for there is no
 greater glory for  aman so long as he lives than that
 ‘which he achieves by hisown hinds and his feet. Nay,
 come, make trial, and east away eare from thy heart.
 ‘Thy journey shall no more be long delayed, nay,
 even now thy ship is launched end the erew 16
 ready.”
     "Then Oaysteus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: “Laodamas, why do ye mock me with this
 challenge? Sorrow is in my mind far more than
 contests, seeing that in time past I have suffered
 much and toiled much, and now I sit in the midst
 of your assembly, longing for my return home, an
 making my prayertothe king and to all the people.’
     Then again Euryalus made answer and taunted
 him to his face: “Nay verily, stranger, for I do not
 ken thee toa man that is skilled in contests, such
‘as abound among men, but to one who, faring to and
fro with his benched ship, is ἃ captain of sailors who
are merchantmen, one who is mindful of his freight,
and has charge of a home-borne cargo, and the
gains of his greed. ‘Thou dost not look like an
athlete.”
                                                  269

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_290>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 165-190
   Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows
Odysseus of many wiles answered him: “Stranger,
thou hast not spoken well; thouartas one blind with
folly. So true is ἐν that the gods do not give gracious
gifts to all alike, not form nor mind nor eloquence.
For one man is inferior in comeliness, but the god
sets a crown? of beauty upon his words, and men
look upon him with delight, and he speaks on un-
falteringly with sweet modesty, and 15 conspicuous
among the gathered people, andashe goes through
the eity men gaze upon him as upon a god. Another
again is in comeliness like the immortals, but no
‘crown of grace is set about his words. 80, in thy
case, thy comeliness is preéminent, nor could a
god himself mend it, but in mind thou art stunted.
‘Thou hast stirred the spirit in my breast by speaking
thus unmannerly. Iam not unskilled in sports as
thou pratest, nay, methinks I was among the first 90
long as I trusted in my youth and in my hands.
But now Iam bound by’ suffering and pains; for
‘much have I endured in passing through wars of
men and the grievous waves. But even so, though
T have suffered much, I will make trial of the
contests, for thy word bas stung me to the heart,
and thou hast provoked me with thy speech.”
   He spoke, and, leaping up with his cloak about
him as it was, seized a discus larger than the rest
and thiek, no little heavier then those with which
the Phaeacians were wont to contend one with
another. This with a whirl he sent from his stout
hand, and the stone bummed as it flew; and down
they crouched to the earth, the Phaeacians of the
  ὁ στέρω doos not of itsolf meen crows,” but the mesning
hereipἀκοὰ  byνει176.
                                                      an

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_292>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 191-218
long oars, men famed for their ships, beneath the
rush of the stone. Past the marks of all it flew,
speeding lightly from his hand, and Athene, in the
likeness of a man, set the mark, and she spoke and
addressed him
   “Even a blind man, stranger, could distinguish
this mark, groping for it with his hands, for it is in no
wise confused with the throng of the others, but is
far the first. Be thou of good cheer for this bout
at least: no one of the Phaeacians will reach this, oF
cast beyond it.”
   So she spoke, and the much-enduring goodly
Odysseus was glad, rejoicing that he saw a true
friend in the lists.’ ‘Then with a lighter heart he
spoke among the Phaeacians :
   “Reach this now, young men; and presently,
methinks, I will send another after it, as far or even
further. ΟΥ̓ the rest, if any man’s heart and spirit
id him, let him come hither and make trial—for
ye have greatly angered me—be it in boxing or in
‘wrestling, aye, or in running, Icare not ;let any one
come of all the Phaeacians, save Laodamas alone.
For he is my host, and who would quarrel with one
that entertains him? Foolish is thatmanandworth-
less, who challenges to a contest the host. who re-
ceives him in a strange land; he does but mar his
own fortunes. But of all the rest I refuse none, and
make light of none, but am fain to know them, and
make trial of them man to man. For in all things I
am no weakling, even in all the contests that are
practised among men. Well do 1 know how to
handle the polished bow, and ever would I be the
first to shoot and smite my man in the throng of the
foe, even though many comrades stood by me and
                                                      273
   vou. αν                                     κ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_294>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 219-249
‘were shooting at the men. Only Philoctetes excelled
me with the bow in the land of the Trojans, when
‘WeAchaeans shot, But of    all others I declare that T
am best by far, of all mortals that are now upon the
earth and eat bread, Yet with men of former days
ΤΙ ΝΗ] not seek to vie, with Heracles or with Eurytus
‘of Occhulia, who strove even with the immortals in
archery. Wherefore great Larytus       diedoon, nor did
‘old age come upon him in his halls, for Apollo waxed
‘wroth and slew him, because he had challenged       hit
to a contest with the bow. And with the spear 1
throw farther than any other man can shoot with an
arrow. In the foot race alone I fear that someone of
the Phaeacians may outstrip me, for cruelly have I
been broken amid the many waves, since there was
in my ship no lasting store of provisions; therefore
my limbs are loosened.”
    ‘So he spoke and they were all hushed in silence;
but Alcinous alone answered him and said:
    “Stranger, since not ungraciously dost thou speak
thus in our midst, but art minded to shew forth the
       .ess which waits upon thee, in anger that yonder
fan eatneup to thee in the listsandtaunted thee in
a way in which no mortal would make light of thy
prowess, who knew in his heart how to speak fitly;
come, now, hearken to my words, that thou mayest
telltoanother hero, when in thy halls thou art feast-
ing with thy wife and children, and rememberest our
skill, what feats Zeus has vouchsafed to us from our
fathers’ days even until now. For we are not fault-
less boxers or wrestlers, but in the foot: race we run
swiftly, and we are the best seamen ;and ever to us
is the banguet dear, and the lyre, and the dance,and
changes of raiment, and warm baths, and the couch.
                                                    275

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_296>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Ψ1Π. 250-276
But come now, all ye that are the best dancers of
the Phacacians, make sport, that the stranger may
tell his friends on reaching home how far we surpass
others in seamanship and in fleetness of foot, and
in the dance and in song. And let one go straight-
way and fetch for Demodocus the clear-toned lyre
‘which lies somewhere in our halls.”
    So spoke Aleinous the godlike, and the herald
rose to fetch the hollow lyre from the palace of the
kking. Then stood up masters ofthelists, nine in all,
men chosen from out the people, who in their gather.
ings were wont to order all                   things aright. They
levelled a place for the dance, and marked out a fair
wide ring, and the herald came near, bearing the
clear-toned lyre for Demodocus. He then moved
into the midst, and around him stood boys in the
first bloom of youth, well           skil ed in the dance, and
they smote the goodly dancing floor with their feet.
‘And Odysseus gazed at the twinklings of their feet
and marvelled in spirit.
    But the minstrel struck the chords in preludetohis
sweet lay and sang of the love ofAresandAphrodite
of the fair crown, how first they lay together in the
house of Hephaestus secretly; and Ares gave her
many gifts, and shamed the bed of the lord Hephaes-
tus. Bat straightway one came to him with ti
even Helius, who had marked them as they lay
together in love. And when Hephaestus heard the
grievous tale, he went his way to his smithy, ponder-
ing evil in the deep of his heart, and set on the
anvil block the great anvil and forged bonds which
might not be broken or loosed, that the lovers?
might bide fast where they were. But when he had
fashioned the snare in his wrath against Ares, he
         ἃ Orthe eubject of μένοιεν may be the bonds.
                                                               211

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_298>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 277-303
wenttohis chamber where lay his bed, and every-
where round about the bed-posts he spread the
bonds, and many too were hung from above, from the
roof-beams, fine as spiders’ webs, so that no one even
of the blessed gods could see them, so exceeding
ceraftily were they fashioned. But when he had spread
all his snare about the couch, he made as though he
would go to Lemnos, that well-built citadel, which
is in his eyes far the dearest of all lands. And no
blind watch did Ares of the golden rein keep, when
he saw Hephaestus, famed for his handicraft, depart-
fing, but he went his way to the house of famous
Hephaestus, eager for the love of Cytherea of the
fair crown. "Now she had but newly come from the
presence of her father, the mighty son of Cronos,
and had sat her down. And Ares came into the
house and clasped her hand and spoke and addressed
her:
    “Come, love, let us to bed and take our joy,
couched together. For Hephaestus is no longer here
in the land, but has now gone, I ween, to Lemnos, to
visit the Sintians ofsavage speech.”
    So he spoke, and a weleome thing it seemed to
her to lie with him. So they two went to the couch,
and lay them down to sleep, and about them clung
‘the cunning bonds of the wise Hephaestus, nor could
they in any wise stir their limbs or raise them up.
‘Then at length they learned that there was no more
escaping. And neartothem came the famous god οὗ
the two strong arms, having turned back before he
reached the land of Lemnos; for Helius had kept
watch for him and had brought him word. So he
went to his house with a heavy heart, and stood at
           2Others render “lameinboth Limba,
                                                   279

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_300>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 304-330
     the gateway, and fierce anger seized him, And
     terribly he eried out and called to all the gods:
        “Father Zeus, and ye other blessed gods that are
     forever, come hither that ye may see a laughable
     matter and a monstrous,! even how Aphrodite, daugh-
     ter of Zeus, scorns me for that I am Jame and loves
||   destructive Ares because he is comely and strong of
     limb, whereas I was born misshapen. Yet for this is
     none other to blame but my two parents—would
     they had never begotten me! But ye shall see
     where these two have gone up intomybed and sleep
|    together in love; and I am troubled at the sight.
     Yet, methinks, they will not wish to lie longer thus,
     no, not for a moment, how loving soever they are.
|    Soon shall both lose their desire to sleep; but the
     snare and the bonds shall hold them until her father
         1s back to me all the gifts of wooing that I gave
     Biz for the sake of his shameless giely. forhi
     daughter is fair but bridles not her passion.”
        So he spoke and the gods gathered to the house
     of the brazen floor Poseidon came, the earth-en-
     folder, and the helper Hermes came, and the lord
     Apollo, the archer god. Now the goddesses abode
     for shame each in her own house, but the gods, the
     givers of good things, stood in the gateway and un-
     quenchable laughter arose among the blessed gods
     as they saw the craft of wise Hephaestus. And thus
     ‘would one speak, with a glance at his neighbour:
        “Ill deeds thrive not. The slow catches the swift
     even as now Hephaestus, slow though he is, has out
         δι                  τη Incking in discretion.”
       3 Op, “with th
       ὁ 88 ‘pamity,         τῳ
                     the avert
     steal   he whe work ar ofilk” ‘The word means

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_302>>>
THE ΟΡΥΒΒΕΥ, VII. 331-358
    stripped Ares for all that he is the swiftest of the
    gods who hold Olympus Lame though he is, he
    hhas caught him by craft, wherefore Ares owes the
    fine of the adulterer.”
       ‘Thus they spoke to one another. But to Hermes
    the lord Apollo, son ofZeus, sid:
       “Hermes, son of Zeus, messenger, giver of good
    things, wouldst thou in stoth be wiling, even though
    ‘ensnared with strong bonds, to lie on a couch by the
    side of golden Aphrodite?”
       ‘Then the messenger, Argeiphontes, answered him:
    “Would that this might befall, lord Apollo, thou
    archer god—that thrice as many bonds inextricable
    aight clasp me about and γα gods, aye, an all the
    goddesses too might be looking on, bat that I might
    sleep by the side of golden Aphrodite.”
       So he spoke and laughter aroseamong the immortal
Ι   gods. Yet Poseidon laughed not, but ever besought
    Hephaestus, the famous craftsman, to set Ares free;
    and he spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
       “Loose him, and I promise,asthou biddest me,
    that he shall himself pay thee all that is right in the
    presence of the immortal gods,
       Then the famous god of the two strong arms
    answered him: “Ask not this of me, Poseidon, thou
    earth-enfolder. A sorrything to be sure of is the
    surety forasorry knave. How could I put thee in
    bonds among the immortal gods, if Ares should
    avoid both the debt and the bonds and depart?”
       ‘Then again Poseidon, the earth-shaker, answered
    him: “Hephaestus, even if Ares shall ‘avoid the
    debt and flee away, Iwill my         yy thee this.”
       ‘Then the famoas god ofthe two strong arms
    answered him: “Tt may not be that 1 should say
    thee nay, nor were it seemly.”                      283

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_304>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 359-386
    So saying the mighty Hephaestus loosed the bonds
and the two, when they were freed from that bond
30 strong, sprang up straightway. And Ares de-
parted to Thrace, but she, the laughter-loving Aphro-
dite, went to Cyprus, to Paphos, where is her demesne
‘and fragrant altar. There the Graces bathed her
and anointed her with immortal oil, such as gleams?
upon the gods that are forever. And they clothed
her in lovely raiment, a wonder to behold,
    ‘This song the famous minstrel sang ; and Odysseus
was glad at heart as he listened, and so too were
the Phaeacians of the long oars, men famed for
their ships.
    Then Aleinous bade Halius and Laodamas dance
‘alone, for no one could vie with them. And when
they had taken in their hands the beautiful ball
of purple, which wise Polybus had made for them,
the one would lean backward and toss it toward
the shadowy clouds, and the other would leap up
from the earth and skilfully catch it before his feet
touched the ground again. But when they had tried
their skill in throwing the ball straight up, the two
fell to daneing on the bounteous earth, ever tossing
the ball to and fro, and the other youths stood in
the lists and beat time, and thereat «great din arose.
    ‘Then to Alsinous spoke goodly Odysseus: « Lord
Aleinous, renowned above all men, thiou didst boast
that thy’dancers were the best, and lo, thy words
‘are made good;amazement holds me as I look on
them.”
    So he spoke, and the stroxig and mighty Alcinous
was glad; and straightway he spoke among the
 Phaeacians, lovers of the oat
              2        ly, decks,” “covers”
              Δ δὴ abe all the peopleτο             285

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_306>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 387-413
   «Hear me, leaders and counsellors of the Phae-
acians. This stranger verily seems to me a man
of understanding, Come then, let us give him a
gift of friendship, as Is fitting? for twelve glorious
kings bear sway in our land as rulers, and I myself
am the thirteenth. Now do you, each of the twelve,
bring a newly washed cloak and tunic, and a talent
of precious gold, and let us straightway bring all
together, that the stranger with our gifts in his
hands may go to his supper glad at heart. And
let Euryalus make amends to the stranger himself
with words and with a gift, for the word that he
sake, was in no wise seem.”
   So he spoke, and they all praised his words and
bade that 60it should be, and sent forth every man
ἃ herald to fetch the gifts. And Euryalus in turn
‘made answer, and said?
    Lord Alcinous, renowned above all men, I will
indeed make amends to the stranger,asthou biddest
‘me. I will give him this sword, all of bronze,
whereon is ἃ hilt of silver, and a scabbard of new.
sawn ivory is wrought about it; and it shall be to
him a thing of great worth.”
   So saying, he put into his hands the silver-
studded sword, and spoke, and addressed him with
winged words: “Hail, Sir stranger; but if any
word has been spoken that was harsh, may the
storm-winds straightway snatch it and bear it away.
And for thyself, may the gods grant thee to see
thy wife, and to come to thy native land, for long
time hast thou been suffering woes far from thy
friend
   ‘And Odysseus ofmany wiles answered him: “ ΑἹ]
hail to thee, too, friend; and may the gods grant
                                                   287

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_308>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 414-440
 thee happiness, and mayest thou never hereafter
 ‘miss this sword which thou hast given me, making
 amends with gentle speech.””
     He spoke, and about his shoulders hung the silver-
 studded sword, And the sun set, and the glorious
gifts werebrought    him.‘These the lordly heralds bore
 to the palace of Alcinous, and the sons of peerless
 Aleinous took the beautiful gifts and set them before
 their honoured mother. And the strong and mighty
 Aleinous led the way, and they came in and sat
 down on the high seats. ‘Then to Arete spoke the
 mighty Aleinous :
    “Bring hither, wife, a goodly chest, the best thou
 hast, and thyself place in it a newly-washed cloak
 and tunic ; and do ye heat for the stranger acauldron
 on the fire, and warm water, that when he has
 bathed and has seen well bestowed all the gifts
 which the noble Phaeacians have brought hither,
 he may take pleasure in the feast, and in hearing
 the strains of the song. And I will give him this
 Deautiful cup of mine, wrought of gold, that he
 may remember me all’ his days as he pours liba-
 tions
 gods” in his halls to Zeus and to the other
    80 he spoke, and Arete bade her handmaids to
 set a great cauldron on the fire with all speed.
 ‘And they set on the blazing fire the cauldron for
 filling the bath, and poured in water, and took
 billets of wood and kindled them beneath it. Then
 the fire played about the belly of the cauldron, and
 the water grew warm; but meanwhile Aretebrought
 forth for the stranger a beautiful chest from the
 treasure chamber, and placed in it the goodly gifts,
 the raiment and’ the gold, which the Phacacians
         :                                          289

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_310>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VII. 441-466
gave. And therein she herself placed a closk and
ἃ fair tunic; and she spoke and addressed Odysseus
with winged words:
    "Look now thyself to the lid, and quickly cast
a cord upon it, lest some one despoil thee of thy
goods on the way, when later on? thou art lying in
sweet sleep, as thou farest in the black ship,””
    Now when the much-enduring goodly Odysseus
heard these words, he straightway fitted on the
lid, and quickly cast a cord upon it—a cunning
knot, which queenly Circe once had taught him.
Then forthwith the housewife bade him go to the
bath and bathe; and his heart was glad when he
saw the warm bath, for he had not been wont to
have such tendance from the time that he left
the house of fafred-haired Calypso, but until then
he had tendance continually as a god.
   ‘Now when the handmaids had bathed him and
anointed him with oil, and had east about him a
fair cloak and a tunic, he came forth from the
bath, and went to join the men at their wine.
‘And Nausicaa, gifted with beauty by the                  gods,
stood by the door-post of the well-built hall, and
she marvelled at Odysseus, as her eyes beheld
him, and she spoke, and addressed him with winged
words:
   “Farewell, stranger, and hereafter even in thy
own native land mayest thou remember me, for
to me first thou owest the price of thy life.”
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her:
“Nausiona, daughter of         great-hearted Alcinous, so
may Zeus grant, the loud-thundering lord of Here,
that Imay reach my home and see. the day of
             +Seo Merry and Riddell ad lo,
                                                      291

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_312>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIL. 467-492
    my returning. ‘Then will I even there pray to thee
    a to 0 god all my days, for thou, maiden, hast
|   δ Ἧς spoke, and sat down on a chair beside king
    Alcinous. And now they were serving out portions
    and mixing the wine. ‘Then the herald came near,
    leading the good minstrel, Demodocus, held in
    honour by the people, and seated him in the midst
    of the banqueters, leaning his chair against ἃ high
    pillar ‘Then to the herald said Odysseus of many
    wiles, cutting of aportion of the chine ofawhite-
    tusked boar, whereof yet more was left, and there
    was rich fat on either side:
       “Herald, take and give this portion to Demo-
    doous, that he may eat, and I will greet him, despite
    my grief. For among all men that are upon the
    earth minstrels win honour and reverence, for that
    the Muse has taught them the paths of song, and
    loves the tribe of minstrels.”
        So he spoke, and the herald bore the portion
    and placed it in the hands of the lord Demodocus,
    and he took it and was glad at heart. So they
    put forth their hands to the good cheer lying ready
    before them. But when they had put from them
    the desire of food and drink, then to Demodocus
    said Odysseus of many wiles:
       “Demodocus, verily above all mortal men do I
    praise thee, whether it was the Muse, the daughter
    of Zeus, that taught thee, or Apollo; for well and
    ‘truly dost thou sing of the fate of the Achaeans,
    all that they wrought and suffered, and all the
    toils they endured, as though haply thou hadst
    thyself been present, or hadst heard the tale from
    another. But come now, change thy theme, and
                                                      293

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_314>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 493-520
 sing of the building of the horse of wood, which
 Epelus made with Athene’s help, the horse which
 onte Odysseus led up into the citadel as a thing
 of guile, when he had filled it with the men who
 sacked Ilios. If thou dost indeed tell me this
 tale aright, I will declare to all mankind that the
 aod has of α ready heart granted thee the git of
   ivine song.”
     So he spoke, and the minstrel, moved by the god,
 began, and let his song be heard, taking up the tale
 where the Argives had embarked on their benched
 ships and were sailing away, after casting fire on
their huts,while those others led by glorious Odys-
 seus were now sitting in the place of assembly ofthe
 Trojans, hidden in the horse; for the Trojans had
 themselves dragged it to the citadel. So there it,
 stood, while the people talked long as they sat about
 it, and could form no resolve. Nay,inthree ways did
 counsel find favour in their minds: either to cleave
 the hollow timber with the pitiless bronze, or todrag
 it to the height and cast it down the rocks, or to
 let it stand as a great offering to propitiate the gods,
 even as in the end it wasto be broughttopass ; forit,
 was their fatetoperish when their city should enclose
 the great horse of wood, wherein were sitting all the
est of the Argives, bearing to the Trojans death and
 fate, And he sang how the sons of the Achaeans
poured forth from the horse and, leaving their hollow
ambush, sacked the city. Ofthe others he sang how
 in          ways they wasted the lofty city, but of
 Odysseus, how he went like Ares to the house of
 Deiphobus together with godlike Menelaus. ‘There
it was, he said, that Odysseus braved the most terrible
fight and in the end conquered by the aid of great-
hearted Athene.
                                                      295

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_316>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIIL 521-549
     This song the famous minstrel sang. But the
 heart of Odysseus was melted and tears wet his
 cheeks beneath his eyelids. And as a woman wails
 and flings herself about her dear husband, who has
 fallen infront of is city and his people, seeking to
 ‘ward off from his city and his children the pitiless
 day; and as she belolds him dying aad gasping for
 leath, she lings to him and shrieks aloud, while
 the foe behind her smite her back and shoulders
 with their spears, and lead her away to captivity to
 bear toil and woe, while with most pitiful grief her
 checks are wasted: even so did Odysseus let fall
 pitiful tears from beneath his brows. Now from all
 the rest he concealed the tears that he shed, but
 Aleinous lone marked him and took heed, for he
 ‘sat by him and heard him           groani g heavily. And
 ἘΣ               ΤΩ ΤΥ ΤΥ                       Τὰ -
 ofthe oar:
- Hear me, leaders and counsellors of the Phaea-
 cians, and let Demodocus now check his clear-toned
 lyre, for in no wise to all alike does he give pleasure
 With this song.” Ever since we began to sop and the
 divine minstrel was moved to sing, from that time
 yon stranger has never ceased from sorrowful lamen-
 tation; surely, methinks, grief has encompassed his
 heart. Nay, let the minstrel cease, that we may all
 make merry, hosts and guest alike, since it is better
 thus, Lo, for the sake of the honoured stranger all
 these things have been made ready, his sending and
 the giftsoffriendship which we give him of ourlove.
 Dearasa brother is the stranger and the suppliant
 to a man whose wits have never 80 short a range.
 ‘Therefore do not thou longer hide with erafty thought
 whatever I shall ask thee; to speak out plainly is
                                                        297

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_318>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII. 550-578
the better course. Tell me the name by which they
‘were wont to call thee in thy home, even thy mother
and thy father and other folk besides, thy townsmen
and the dwellers round about. For there is no one
of all mankind who is nameless, be he base man or
noble,whenonce he has been born,but parents bestow
names on all when they give them birth. And tell me
thy country, thy people, and thy city, that our ships
may convey thee thither, discerning’ the course by
their wits. For the Phacacians have no pilots, nor
steering-oars such as other ships have, but theirships
of themselves understand the thoughts and minds of
men, and they know the eities and rich fields of all
peoples, and most swiftly do they eross over the gulf
of the sea, hidden in mist and cloud, nor ever have
they fear of harm or ruin. Yet this story I once
heard thus told by my father Nausithous, who was
wont to say that Poseidon was wroth with us beeause
we give safe convoy to all men. He said that some
  lay,a8a well-built ship of the Phaeacians wasreturn-
   1g from a convoy over the misty deep, Poseidon
‘would smite her and would fling ἃ great mountain
about ourcity So that old man spoke, and these
things the god will haply bring to pass, or will leave
unfulfilled, as may be his good pleasure. But come,
now, tell me this and declare it truly: whither thou
hast’ wandered and to what countries of men thou
hhast come ;tell me of the people and of their well-
Dui cities, both of those who are cruel and wild and
‘unjust, and of those who love strangers and fear the
gods in their thoughts. And tell me why thou dost
‘weep and wail in spirit as thou hearest the doom
of the Argive Danaans-and of Ios. ‘This the gods
         2 Thati go aatooutthomofffromthesea,
                                                   299

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_320>>>
THE ODYSSEY, VIII 579-586
wrought, and spun the skein of ruin for men, that
there might be ἃ song for those yet to be bon. Did
some kinsman of thine fall before Ilios, some good,
true man, thy daughter's husband or thy wife's father,
such as are nearest to one after one’s own kin and
blood? Or wasit haply some comrade dear to thy
heart, some good, true man? For no whit worse
than a brother is a comrade who has an understand-
ing heart.”

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_322>>>
ΒΟΟΚ       ΙΧ

    Trex Odysseus, of many wiles, answered him, and
 said: ‘Lord Alcinous, renowned above all men,
 verily this is a good thing, to listen to a minstrel
 such as this man is, like unto the gods in voice. For
 and banqueters
 they sit in order due, and by them tables are laden.
        bread and meat, and the cup-bearer draws wine
 from the howl and bears it round and pours it into
 the cups. This seems to my mind the fairest thing
 there is. But thy heart is turned to ask of my
 grievous woes, that I may weep and groan the more.
 What, then, shall T tell thee first, what last? for woes
 fall many Rave the heavenly gods given me. First
 now will I tell my name, that ye, too, may know it,
 ‘and that I hereafter, when 1 have escaped from the
 pitiless day of doom, may be your host, though I
 well in a home that is afar. I'am Odysseus, son of
 Laertes, who am known among men for all manner
 of wiles! and my fame reaches unto heaven. But
 I dwell in clear-seen Ithaca, wherein is a mountain,
 Neriton, covered with waving forests, conspicuous
 from afar; and round it liemany isles hard by one
another, Dalichium, and Same,andwooded Zacynthus,
     4 05, “who amknown amongallmen for my wiles.”
                                                      303

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_324>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 25-47
Ihaca itself Wes close in to the mainland? the
farthest toward the gloom,? but the others lie
apart toward the Dawn and the sun—a rugged isle,
but a good nurse of young men; and for myself no
other thing can I see swecter than one’s own land.
OF a truth Calypso, the benutifal goddess, sought to
keep me by her in her hollow caves, yearning that ΕΓ
should be her husband; and in like manner Circe
‘would fain have held me back in her halls, the guileful
lady of Acaca, yearning that I should be her husband;
but they could never persuade the heart within my
breast. 80 true is it that naught is sweeter than a
man’s own land and his parents, even though it be
in arich house that he dvells afar in a foreign Jand
away from his parents, But come, let me tell thee
also of my woeful home-coming, which Zeus laid
upon me as I came from Troy.
    “From Mios the wind bore me and brought me to
the Gicones, to Ismarus. There I sacked the city
and slew the men; and from the city we took their
wives and great store of treasure, and divided them
among us, that so far aslay in me no man might go
defrauded of an equal-share. ‘Then verily Igave
command that we should fee with swift foot, but the
others in their great folly did not hearken, But
there much wine was drink, and many sheep they
slew by the shore, and sleek kine of shambling gait.
Meanwhile the Gieones went and called to other
actual facts. Τὸ accopte the view that Homer's Ithaca isto
bo identified, not with Thiaki, but with Leneas. Ascom.
monly rendered, the lines convict the poet of an utter
Ignorance of the geography of western Greece,        |”
   2°That is, from the standpointofa sailor making bisway
up the coast toward the dark and unknown region of the
‘orth and west,
                                                        305
    vou 1.                                        L

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_326>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 48-75
Cicones who were thefr neighbours, at once more
numerous and braver than they—men that dwelt
inland and were skilled at fighting with their foes
from chariots, and, if need were, on foot. So they
‘came in the morning, as thick as leaves or flowers
spring up in their season; and then it was that an
evil fate from Zeus beset us luckless men, that we
might suffer woes full many. They set their battle
in array and fought bythe swift ships, and each side
hurled at the other with bronze-tipped spears. Now
as long as it was morn and the sacred day was
waxing, so long we held our ground and beat them
off, though they were more than we. But when
the sun tured to the time for the unyoking of
oxen, then the Cicones prevailed and routed the
‘Achaeans, and six of my well-greaved comrades
perished from each ship; but the rest of us escaped
death and fate.
   “Thence we sailed on, grieved at heart, glad to
have escaped from death, though we hed’ lost our
dear comrades; nor did T Tet my curved ships pas
ontill we had called thrice on each of those hapless
comrades of ourswho died on the plain, cut down by
the Cicones. But against our ships Zeus, the cloud-
gatherer, roused the North Wind with a wondrous
tempest, and hid with clouds the land and the sea
alike, and night rushed down from heaven. ‘Then
the ships were driven headlong, and their sails were
tom to shreds by the violence of the wind. So we
lowered the sails and stowed them aboard, in fear of
death,androwed the ships hurriedly toward the land.
‘There for two nights and two days continuously we
lay, eating our hearts for weariness and sorrow, But
                                                397

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_328>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 76-104
 when now fair-tressed Dawn brought to its birth the
 third day, we set up the masts and hoisted the white
 sails, and took our seais, and the wind and the
 helmsmen steered the ships. And now all unscathed
 should I have reached my native land, byt the wave
 and the current and the North Wind beat me back
as I was rounding Malea, and drove me from my
course past Cythera,
    “Thence for nine days’ space I was borne by dire-
 fal winds over the teeming deep; but on the tenth
wwe set foot on the land of the Lotus-eaters, who eat
ἃ flowery food. ‘There we went on shore and drew
water, and straightway my comrades took their meal
by the swift ships. But when we had tasted food
and drink, I sent forth some of my comrades to
go and learn who the men were, who here ate bread
upon the earth; two men I chose, sending with them
fa third as a herald. So they went straightway and
mingled with the Lotus-eaters, and the Lotus-eaters
did not plan death for my comrades, but gave them
of the lotus to taste. And whosoever of them ate
of the honey-sweet fruit of the lotus, had no longer
any wish to bring back word or to return, but there
they were fain to abide among the Lotus-eaters, feed~
ing on the lotus, and forgetful of their homeward
way. These men, therefore, I brought back perforce
to the ships, weeping, and dragged them beneath
the benches and bound them fast in the hollow
ships; and I bade the rest of my trasty comrades to
embark with speed on the swift ships, lest perchance
anyone should eat of the lotus and forget his home-
ward way. 80 they went on board straightway and
sat down upon the benches, and sitting well in order
smote the grey sea with their oars.
                                                  309

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_330>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 105-131
    “Thence we sailed on, grieved at heart, and we
 ‘came to the land of the Cyclopes, an overweening
 ‘and lawless folk, who, trusting in the immortal gods,
 plant nothing with their hands nor plough; but all
 ‘these things spring up for them without sowing or
 ploughing, wheat, and barley, and vines, which bear
 the rich clusters of wine, and the rain of Zeus gives
‘them increase. Neither assemblies for council have
 they, nor appointed laws, but they dwell on the peaks
 of lofty mountains in hollow eaves, and each one is,
 Jager to hig ehildren and his wives, and they reek
 nothing one of another.
    “Now there is a level? isle that stretches aslant
 outside the harbour, neither close to the shore of the
 land of the Cyclopes, nor yet far off, a wooded isle.
 ‘Therein live wild gonts innumerable, for the tread
 of men scares them not away, nor are hunters
 wont to come thither, men who endure toils in
 the woodland as they course over the peaks of
 the mountains. Neither with flocks is it held, nor
 with ploughed lands, bat unsown and untilled all
 the days it knows naught of men, but feeds the
 bleating goats. For the Cyclopes have at hand no
 ships with vermilion checks,? nor are there ship-
 wrights in their Jand who might build them well-
 benched ships, which should perform all their wants,
 passing to the cities of other folk, as men often
‘ross the sea in shipstovisitone another—eraftsmen,
who would have made of this isle also a fair settle
ment. For the isle is nowise poor, but would bear
                     Aoubefal one. Others render, sd
                     others, ‘overgrown with brush,” νι
   ‘waste’
   αν is, with bows painted red.
                                                     grr

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_332>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 132-160
 all things in season, In it are meadows by the shores
 ‘of the grey sea, well-watered meadows and soft,
 where vines would never fail, and in it level plough-
 land, whence they might reap from season to season
 harvests exceeding deep, so rich is the soil beneath ;
 and in it, too, is a harbour giving safe anchorage,
 where there is no need of moorings, either to throw
 out anchor-stones or to make fast stern cables, but
 ‘one may beach one’s ship and wait until the sailors’
 minds bid them put out, and the breezes blow fair.
 Now at the hetd of the harbour a spring of bright
 water flows forth from beneath a eave, and round
about it poplars grow. hither we sailed in, and
some god guided us through the murky night; for
 there was no light to see, but a mist lay deep about
 the ships and the moon showed no light from heaven,
 bbut was shutinby clouds. Then no man's eyes be-
 held that island, nor did we see the long waves
rolling on the beach, until we ran our well-benched
ships on shore. And when we had beached the
ships we lowered all the sails and ourselves went
forth on the shore of the sea, and there we fell
asleep and waited for the bright.Dawn.
    As soonasearly Dawn appeared,     therosy-fingered,
we roamed throughout the isle marvelling at it; and
the nymphs, the daughters of Zeus who bears the
aegis, roused the mountain goats, that my comrades
might have whereof to make their meal. Straight-
way we took from the ships our curved bows and
Tong javelins, and arrayed in three bands we fell to
smiting; and the god soon gave us game to satisfy
our hearts. ‘The ships that followed me were twelve,
and to each nine goats fell by lot, but for me alone
they chose out ten.
                                                    313

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_334>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 161-189
   “So then all day long till set of sun we sat feasting
on abundant flesh and sweet wine. For not yet was
‘the red wine spent from out our ships, but some was
still left; for abundant store had we drawn in jars
for each crew when we took the sacred citadel of the
Cicones. And we looked across to the land of the
Gyclopes, who dwelt close at hand, and marked the
smoke, and the voice of men, and of the sheep, and
‘of the goats. But when the sun set and darkness
‘came on, then we lay down to rest on the shore of
the sea. And as soon as early Dawn appeared, the
rooy-fingered
among them’ all:
                I ulled my men togetherandspoke
   "Remain here now, all the rest of you, my trasty
comrades, but I with my own ship and my own com-
pany will go and make trial of yonder men, to learn
who they are, whether they aré eruel, and wild, and
unjust, or whether they love strangers and fear the
gods in their thoughts.”
   “So saying, I went on board the ship and bade
my comrades themselves to embark, and to loose the
stern cables. So they went on board straightway
‘and sat down upon the benches, and sitting well in
‘order smote the grey sea with their oars. But when
‘we had rexched the place, which lay close at hand,
there on the land's edge hard by the sea we saw a
high cave, roofed over with laurels, and there many
flocks, sheep and goats alike, were wont to sleep.
Round about it a high court was built with stones
set deep in the earth, and with tall pines and high-
crested onks. There a monstrous man was wont to
sleep, who shepherded his flocks alone and afar, and
mingled not with others, but lived apart, with his
                                                    315

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_336>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 190-216
hheart set on lawlessness. For he was fashioned a
wondrous monster, and was not like a man that lives
by bread, but like a wooded peak of lofty mountains,
which stands out to view alone, apart from the rest.
   “Then I bade the rest of my trusty comrades to
remain there by the ship and to guard the ship, but
I chose twelve of the best of my comrades and went
my way. With me I hed a goat-skin of the dark,
sweet wine, which Maro, son of Euanthes, had given
me, the priest of Apollo, the god who used to watch
over Ismarus. And he had given itme because we
had protected him with his child and wife out of
reverence; for he dwelt in a woaded grove of Phoebus
Apollo, And he gave me splendid gifts: of well-
‘wrought gold he gave me seven talents, and he gave
me ἃ mixing-bowl all of silver; and besides these,
wine, wherewith he filled twelve jars inall, wine
sweet and unmixed, a drink divine. Not one of his
slaves nor of the maids in his halls knew thereof,
ut himself and his dear wife, and one house-dane
only. And as often as they drank that honey-sweet
red wine he would fill one cup and pour it into
twenty measures of water, and a smell would rise
from the mixing-bowl marvellously sweet; then verily
‘would one not choose to hold back. With this wine
Τ filled and took with mea greatskin, and also provi-
sion in a serip; for my proud spirit had a foreboding
that presently ἃ man would come to me clothed in
great might, a savage man that knew nanght of
justice or of law?
   “Speedily we came to the cave, nor did we find

‘was to the speaker a body of traditional

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_338>>>
THR ODYSSEY, IX. 217-242
 him within, but he was pasturing his fat locks in the
 fields. So we entered the eave and gazed in wonder
 at all things there. The crates were laden with
 cheeses, and the pens were crowded with lambs and
 kids. Bach kind was penned separately: by them-
 selves the firstlings, bythemselves the later lambs,
 and by themselves again the newly yeaned. And
 with whey were swimming all the’ well-wrought
 vessels, the mill-pails and the bowls into which he
 milked. ‘Then my comrades spoke and besought me
 first of all to take of the cheeses and depart, and
 thereafter speedilytodrive to the swift ship the kids
and Inmbs from out the pens, and to sail over
salt water. But I did not listen to them—verily it
would have been better far—to the end that 1 might
see the man himself, and whether he would give me
gifts of entertainment. Yet, as it fell, his appearing
‘was not to prove a joy to my comrades.
    “Then we kindled a fire and offered sacrifice, and
ourselves, too, took of the cheeses and ate, and’ thus
we sat in the cave and waited for him until he came
back, herding his flocks. He bore a mighty weight
of dry wood to serve him at supper time, and Aun,
it down with a crash inside the cave, but we, seize:
with terror, shrank back into a recess of the cave.
But he drove his fat flocks into the wide cavern—all
those that he milked; but the males—the rams and
the goats—he      leftwithout in the deep court. Then
he lifted on high and set in place the great door-
stone, amighty rock ;two’ and twenty stout four-
wheeled wagons could not lift it from the ground,
   + Thia rendering takes ἔκτιθεν asan adverb,   and Balelns
αἰλῆρ an ἃ local genitive (seo Monro, Zomerie. Grammar,
$145), “Otherwise Wvemustohunge the toxt here and in 338,
                                                        319

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_340>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 243-271
  such a towering mass of rock he set in the doorway
  Thereafter he sat down and milked the ewes and
bleating goats all in turn, and beneath each dam
  he placed her young. Then presently he curdled
  half the white milk, and gathered it in wicker baskets
  and laid it away, and the other half he set in vessels
  that he might have it to take and drink, and that it,
  might serve him for supper. But when he had busily
  performed his tasks, then he rekindled the fire, and
  caught sight of us, and asked :
     *Strangers, whio are ye? Whence do ye sail over
  the watery ways? Is if on some business, or do ye.
  ‘wander at random over the sea, even as pirates, who
  wander, hazarding their lives ‘and bringing evil to
  men of other ands?”
     “So he spoke, and in our breasts our spirit was
  broken for terror of his deep voice and monstrous
  self; yet even 50 I made answer and spoke to him,
  saying:
    "rt We, thou must know, are from Troy, Achaeans,
  driven wandering by all manner of winds over the
 great gulf of the sea. Seeking our home, we have
  come by another way, by other paths; 80, Iween,
  Zeus was pleased to devise. And we declare that
  we are the men of Agamemnon,sonof Atreas, whose
 fame is now mightiest under heaven, s0 great a city
 did he sack, and slew many people; but we on our
 part, thus visiting thee, have come as suppliants to
 thy knees, in the hope that thou wilt give us ent
 tainment,orin other wise make some present, as is
 the due of strangers. Nay, mightiest one, rever-
 ence the gods; we are thy suppliants; and Zeus
 is the avenger of suppliants and strangers—Zeus,
 the strangers’ god—who ever attends upon reverend
 strangers.”                                         gar

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_342>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 272-299
    “So I spoke, and he straightway made answer
with pitiless heart: ‘A fool art thou, stranger, or a
come from afar,seeingthat thou biddestmeeither to
fear or toshun the gods. For the Cyclopes reek not
of Zeus, who bears the aegis, nor of the blessed gods,
since verily we are better far than they. Nor would
I, to shun the wrath of Zeus, spare either thee or
thy comrades, unless my own’ heart should bid me.
But tell me where thou didst moor thy well-wrought
ship on thy coming. Was ithaply at ἃ remote part
of the land, or close by? I fain would know."
   “So he spoke, tempting me, but he trapped me
not because of my great cunning; and I made answer
again in crafty words
   «My ship Poseidon, the carth-shaker, dashed to
pieces, casting her upon the rocks at the border of
your land; for he brougitt her close to the headland,
‘and the wind drove her in from the sea. But 1, with
these men here, escaped utter destruction.”
   “So I spoke, but from his pitiless heart he made
no answer, but sprang up and put forth his hands
upon my comrades. ‘Two of them at once he seized
and dashed tothe enrth Ike poppies,     andthe brain
flowed forth upon the ground and wetted the earth,
‘Then he cut them limb from limb and made ready
his supper, and ate them as a mountain-nurtured
lion, leaving naught—ate the entrails, and the flesh,
and the marrowy bones. And we with wailing held
up our hands to Zeus, beholding his cruel deeds;
and helplessness possessed our souls. But when the
Cyclops had filled his luge maw by eating human
flesh and thereafter drinking pure milk, he lay down
within the cave, stretched out among the sheep.
And I formed a plan in my great heart to steal near
                                                  323

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_344>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 300-327
   im, and draw my sharp sword from beside my thigh
and smite him in the breast, where the midriff holds
the liver, feeling for the place with my hand, But
ἃ second thought checked me, for right there should
we, too, have perished in utter ruin. For we should
not have been able to thrust back with our hands
from the high door the mighty stone which he had
set there. So then, with wailing, we waited for the
bright Dawn.
    ‘As soon asearly Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
he rekindled the fire and milked his goodly fiocks all
in turn, and beneath exch dam placed her young.
‘Then, when he had busily performed his tasks, again
he seized two men at once and made ready his meal.
And when he bad made his meal he drove his fut
focks forth from the cave, easily moving away the
great door-stone; and then he put it in place again,
as one might set the lid upon a quiver. ‘Then with
Toud whistling the Cyclops turned his fat flocks
toward the mountain, and I was left there, devising
evil in the deep of my heart, if in any way I might
take vengeance on hitn, and Athene grant me glory.
   “Now this seemed to my mind the best plan.
There lay beside a eheeppen a great club of the
Cyclops, a staff of green olive-wood, which he had
‘cut to carry with him when dry; and as we looked at
it we thought it as large as is the mast of ἃ black
ship of twenty oars, a merchantman, broad of beam,
which erosses over the great gulf; so huge it was in
length and in breadth to look upon. To this I came,
and cut off therefrom about a fathom’s length and
handed it to my comrades, bidding them dress it
down; and they made it smooth, and I, standing by,
sharpened it at the point, and then straightway took
                                                   3:5

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_346>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 328-354
 it and hardened it in the blazing fire. Then I laid
it carefully away, hiding it beneath the dung, which
lay in great heaps throughout the eave. And I bade
my comrades cast lots among them, which of them
should have the hardihood with me to lift the stake
and grind it into his eye when sweet sleep should
come upon him, And the lot fell upon those whom
I myself would fain have chosen; four they were,
‘and I was numbered with them as the fifth, At even
then he came, herding his flocks of goodly fleece,
and straightway drove into the wide cave his fat
flocks one and all, and left not one without in the
deep court, either from some foreboding or because a
οὰ so bade him. ‘Then he lifted on high and set in
place the great door-stone, and         sit ingdown hemilked
the ewes and bleating goats all in turn, and beneath
‘each damn he placed her young. But when he lad
Dusily performed his tasks, again he seized two men
‘at once and made ready his supper. ‘ThenIdrew
near and spoke to the Cyclops, holding in my hands
an ivy? bowl of the dark wi
    «Cyclops, take and drink wine after thy meal of
hhuman flesh, thet thou mayest know what manner of
drink this i which our ship contained. It was to
thee that I was bringing it as a drink offering, in the
hope that, touched with pity, thou mightest send me
‘on my way home; but thou ‘ragest in a way that is
past all bearing. Cruel man, how shall any one of all
the multitudes of men ever come to thee again here~
after, seeing that thou hast wrought lawlessness ?
    “So I spoke, and he took the eup and drained it,
and was wondrously pleased as he drank the sweet
Graught, and asked me for it again a second time:
                A That is,made of ivy wood.
                                                          327

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_348>>>
Ι᾿
                 THE ODYSSEY, IX. 355-381
        «¢Give it me ugain with a ready heart, and tell
     me thy name straightway, that 1 may give thee a
     stranger's gift, whereat thou mayest be glad. For
     among the Cyclopes the earth, the giver of grain,
     bears the rich clusters of wine, and the rain of
     Zeus gives them increase; but this is a streamlet
     of ambrosia and nectar.”
        ‘So he spoke, and again I handed him the faming
     wine. Thrice Ibrought and gave it him, and thriee
     he drained it in his folly. But when the wine had
     stolen about the wits of the Cyclops, then I spoke
     to him with gentle words
        «*Cyclops, thou askest me of my glorious name,
     and I will tell it thee; and do thou give me a
     stranger's gift, even as thou didst promise.      Noman
     is my name, Noman do they call me—my mother
     and my father, and all my comrades as well’
        "So 1 spoke, and he straightway answered me
     with pitiless heart: ‘Noman will 1 eat last amon;
     his comrades, and the others before him ;this shall
     be thy gift’
        “He spoke, and reeling fell upon his back, and
     lay there with his thick neck bent aslant, and sleep,
     that conquers all, laid hold on him. And from his
     gullet came forth wine and bits of human flesh, and
     he vomited in his drunken sleep. Then veril
     thrust in the stake under the deep ashes until
     should grow hot, and heartened all my comrades
     with cheering words, that I might see no man flinch
     through fear. But when presently that stake of
     olive-wood was about to catch fire, green though it
     was, and began to glow terribly, then verily I drew
     nigh, bringing the stake from the fire, and my com-
      riles stood round me and a god breathed into us
                                                      329

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_350>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 382-410
great courage. They took the stake of olive-wood,
sharp at the point, and thrust it into his eye, while
I, throwing my weight upon it.from above, whirled
it round,aswhen a man bores’a ship's timber with
‘drill, while those below keep it spinning with the
thong, which they lay hold of by either end, and the
drill runs around unceasingly. “Even so we took the
fiery-pointed stake and whirled it around in his eye,
and the blood flowed around the heated thing. And
his eyelids wholly and his brows round about did
the flame singeasthe eyeball bumed, and its roots
crackled in the fire. And as when asmith dips a
great axe or anadze in cold water amid loud hissing
to temper it—for therefrom comes the strength of
fron—even s0 did his eye hiss round the stake of
olive-wood. Terribly then did he ery aloud, and the
rock rang around ; and we, seized with terror, shrank
back, while he wrenched from his eye the stake, all
befoiled with blood, and fang it fom him, wildly
waving his arms. Then he called aloud to the Cy-
clopes, who dwelt round about him in eaves among
the windy heights, and they heard his ery and came
thronging from every side, and standing around the
cave asked him what ailedhi
   «What 60 sore distress is thine, Polyphemus, that:
thou erjest out thus through the immortal night, and
makest us sleepless? Can it be that some mortal
man is driving off thy flocks against thy will, or
slaying thee thyself by guile or by might?”
   “Then from out the eave the mighty Polyphemus
answered them: ‘My friends, it is Noman that is
slaying me by guile and not by force.”
   ‘And they made answer and addressed him with
winged words: ‘If, then, no man does violence to
                                                  381

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_352>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 411-439
 thee in thy loneliness, sickness which comes from
 great Zeus thou mayest in no wise eseape. Nay, do
 thou pray to our father, the lord Poseidon.”
    “So they spoke and went their way ; and my heart
 Iaughed within me that myname and cunning device
 had so beguiled. But the Cyclops, groaning and
 ‘travailing in anguish, groped with his hands and
 took away the stone from the door, and himself sat
 in the doorway with arms outstretched in the hope
 of catching anyone who sought to go forth with the
 sheep—so witless, forsooth, he thought in his heart
 to find me. But I took eounsel how all might be the
 very best, if I might haply find some way of eseape
 from death for my comrades and for myself, And
 I wove all manner of wiles and counsel, as a man
 will in a matter of life and death ;for great was the
 evil that was nigh us. And this seemed to my mind
the best plan. Rams there were, well-fed and thick
of fleece, fine beasts and large, with wool dark as
the violet. These I silently bound together with
twisted withes on which the Cyclops, that monster
with his heart set on lawlessness, was wont. to sleep.
Three at ἃtime I took. The one in the middle in
each case bore a man, and the other two went, one
fon either side, saving my comrades. Thus every
three sheep bore a man. But as for me—there was
ἃ ram, far the best of all the flock; him T grasped
by the back, and curled beneath his shaggy belly,
lay there face upwards with steadfast heart, clinging
fast with my hands to his wondrous fleece. 80 then,
with wailing, we waited for the bright dawn.
   “As soonasearlyDawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
then the males of the flock hastened forth to pasture
and the females bleated unmilked about the pens,
                                                   333

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_354>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΙΧ. 440-465
 for their udders were bursting. And their master,
 distressed with grievous pains, felt along the backs
 of all the sheep as they stood up before him, but in
 his folly he marked not this, that my men were
 bound beneath the breasts of his fleecy sheep. Last
 of all the flock the ram went forth, burdened with
 ‘the weight of his fleece and my cunning self, And
 mighty Polyphemas, as he felt along his back, spoke
 to him, saying:
    Good ram, why pray is it that thou goest forth
 thus through the cave the last of the flock? ‘Thou
 hast not heretofore been wont to lag behind the
 sheep, but wast ever far the first to feed on the
 tender bloom of the grass, moving with long strides,
and ever the first didst reach the streams of the
 river, and the first didst long to return to the fold
at evening. But now thou art last of all, Surely
thou art sorrowing for the eye of thy master, which
an evil man blinded along with his miserable fellows,
when he had overpowered my wits with wine, even
 Noman, who, I tell thee, has not yet escaped de-
struction. IF only thou couldst féel as 1 do, and
couldst getthee power of speech to tell me where
he skulks away from my wrath, then should his
brains be dashed on the ground here and there
throughout the cave, whea I had smitten him, and
my heart should be lightened of the woes which
‘good-for-naught Noman has brought me.’
    “So saying, he sent the ram forth from him. And
when we had gone a little way from the cave and
the court, I first loosed myself from under the ram
and set my comrades free. Speedily then we drove
off those long-shanked sheep, rich with fat, tuming
fall often to look about until we came to the ship.
                                                  335

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_356>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 466-491
‘And welcome to our dear comrades was the sight of
us who had escaped death, but for the others they
wept and wailed; yet I would not suffer them to
weep, but with a frown forbade each man. Rather
I bade them to fling on board with speed the many
sheep of goodly fleece,and sail over the salt water.
So they went on board straightway and sat down
upon the benches, and sitting well in order smote
the grey sea with their oars. But when I was as far
‘away a3 a man’s voice carries when he shouts, then
I spoke to the Cyclops with mocking words:
    Cyclops, that man, it scems, was no weakling,
whose comrades thou ‘wast minded to devour by
bratal strength in thy hollow cave. Full surely were
‘thy evil deeds to fall on thine own head, thou eruel
wreteli, who didst not shrink from eating thy guests
in thine own house. Therefore has Zeus taken
vengeance on thee, and the other gods.”
    “801 spoke, and he waxed the more wroth at
heart, and broke off the peak of a high mountain
and hurled it at us, and cast it in front of the dark-
prowed ship And the sea surged beneath the
stone as it fell, and the backward flow, like a flood
from the deep, bore the ship swiftly Iandwards and
drove it upon the shore. But I seized a long pole in
my hands and shoved the ship off and along the
shore, and with a nod of my head I roused my com-
rades,and bade them fall to their oars that we might
escape out of our evil plight. And they bent to their
cars and rowed. But when, as we fared over the sea,
we were twice as far distant, then was I fain to call
   2 The         8 verse 483 has been omitted in the trans
tion as rulnous to the. nee. Τὺ has anade ite way into the
text from 540, wher         Ἴρ place.
                                                         337
    vou.                                            M

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_358>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 492-519
to the Cyclops, though round about me my comrades,
one after another, sougiit to check me with gentle
words:
   “* Reckless one, why wilt thou provoke to wrath
ἃ savage man, who but now hurled his missile into
the deep and drove our ship back to the land, and
verily we thought that we lad perished there? “And
had he heard one of us uttering a sound or speaking,
he would have hurled a jagged rock and erushed our
Neads and the timbers of our ship, so mightily does
he throw.”
   “So they spoke, but they could not persuade mn;
greathearted opine; and Danewered hin again with
angry heart:
   Cyclops, if any one of mortal men shall ask
thee about the shameftl blinding of thine eye, say
that Odysseus, the sacker of cities, blinded jit, even
the son of Laertes, whose home is in Ithaca.”
   So I spoke, and he groaned and said in answer:
“Lo now, verily a prophecy uttered long ago is come
upon mé. ‘There lived here a soothsayer, a
wpe and tall Telamas, son of Baryms, whoex
celled all men in soothsaying, and grew old as a seer
among the Cyclopes. He told me that all these
things should be brought to pass in days to come,
that bythe hands of Odysseus [should lose my sight.
But I ever looked for some tall and comely man to
come hither, clothed in great might, but now one
that is puny, aman of naught and a weakling, has
Dlinded me of my eye when he had overpowered me
with wine, Yet come hither, Odysseus, that I may
set before thee gifts of entertainment, and may speed
thy sending hence,that the glorious Rarth-shakermay
grant it thee, For I am his son, and he declares him-
                                                   339

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_360>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 520-547
self my father; and he himself will heal me, if it be
his good pleasure, but none other either of the blessed
gods or of mortal men.”
    “So he spoke, and I answered him and said:
«Would that I were able to rob thee of soul and
life, and to send thee to the house of Hades, as
surely as not even the Earth-shaker shall heal thine
eye.”
    “So I spoke, and he then prayed to the lord Po-
seidon, stretching out both his hands to the starry
heaven: ‘Hear me, Poseidon, earth-enfolder, thou
dark-haired god, if indeed I am thy son and thou
declarest: thyself my father; grant that Odysseus,
the sucker of cities, may never reach his home, even
the son of Laertes, whose home is in Ithaca; but
if it is his fate to see his friends and to reach his
well-built house and his native land, Iate may he
come and in evil ease, after losing all his comrades,
in a ship that is another's; and may he find woes in
his house.”
   “So he spoke in prayer, and the dark-haired god
heard him. But the Cyclops lifted on high again
‘afar greater stone, and swung and hurled it, putting
into the throw measureless strength. He cast it a
little behind the dark-prowed ship, and barely missed
the end of the steering-oar. And the sea surged
Deneath the stone as it fell, and the wave bore the
ship onward and drove it to the shoFe,
   Now when we had come to the island, where our
other well-benched ships lay all together, and round
‘about them our comrades, ever expecting us, satweep-
ing, then, on coming thither, we beached our ship on
the sands, and ourselves went forth upon the shore
                                                  341

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_362>>>
THE ODYSSEY, IX. 548-566
    of the sea, ‘Then we took from out the hollow ship
    the flocks of the Cyclops, and divided them, that so
    far as in me lay no man’ might go defrauded of an
    equal share, But the ram my well-greaved comrades
      ave to me alone, when the flocks were divided, as a
    ‘gift apnrt; and on the shore 1sacrificed him to Zeus,
    son of Cronos, god of the dark clouds, who is lord of
    all, and burned the thigh-pieces. Howbeit he heeded
    not my sacrifice, but was planning how all my well-
    benched ships might perish and my trusty comrades.
        “So, then, all day long till sct of sun we sat feast
    ing on abundant flesh and sweet wine ;but when the
    sun set and darkness came on, then we Iny down to
    rest on the shore of the sea. And as soon as carly
    Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered, I roused my com-
    rades, and bade them themselves to embark and to
    loose’ the stern cables. So they went on board
    straightway and sat down upon the benches, and
    sitting well in order smote the grey sea with their
       “Thence we sailed on, grieved at hreart, glad to
    have escaped death, though we had lost our dear
    comrades.




|                                                       343
|

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_364>>>
BOOK       X
    “Tugw to the Aeolian isle we came, where dwelt
 Aeolus, son of Hippotas, dear to the immortal gods,
 in a floating island, and all around it is a wall of
 unbreakable bronze, and the cliff rans up sheer.
 Twelve children of his, too, there are in the halls,
 six daughters and six sturdy sons, and he gave his
 daughters to his sons to wife. These, then, feast
 continually by their dear father and good mother,
 and before them lies boundless good cheer. And
 the house, filled with the savour of feasting, re-
 sounds all’ about even in the outer court by day,?
 and by night again they sleep beside their chaste
 wives on blankets and on corded bedsteads. To
 their city, then, and fair palace did we come, and for
 ‘a fall month he made me weleome and questioned
 ‘me about each thing, about Ilios, and the ships of
 the Argives, and the return of the Achaeans. And
 1 told him all the tale in due order, But when T, on
 my part, asked him that I might depart and bade
 him send me on my way, he, too, denied me nothing,
 but furthered my sending. He gave me a wallet,
 made of the hide of an oxnine years old,? which he
 fiayed, and therein he bound the paths of the blus-
 tering winds; for the son of Cronos had made him
 cannot be said to be appropriate in x, 300. Possibly nine
tranfat marly ona Food nosiber, or the ageof nine    takes
 merely to denote full maturity.
                                                       345

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_366>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Χ. 22-48
keeper of the winds, both to still and to rouse what-
ever one he will. And in my hollow shiphe bound
it fast with ἃ bright cord of silver, that not a breath
might escape, were it never so slight. But for my
furtherance he sent forth the breath of   the West Wind
to blow, that it might bear on their way both ships
and men. Yet this he was not to bring to pass, for
‘we were lost through our own folly.
   “For nine days we sailed, night and day alike, and
now on the tenth our native land came in sight, and
lo, we were so nenr that we saw men tending the
beacon’ fires? ‘Then upon me enme sweet sleep in
my weariness, for Ihad ever kept in hand the sheet
of the ship, and had yielded it to none other of my
comrades, that we might the sooner come to our
native land. But my comrades meanwhile began to
speak one to another, and snid that I was bringing
home for myself gold and silver as gifts from Aeolus,
the great-hearted sonof Hippotas, And thus would
one speak, with a glance at his neighbour:
   “Out on it, how beloved and honoured this man
is by all men, to whose city and land soever he
comes! Much’ goodly treasure is he carrying with
him from the land of Troy frum out the spoil, while
we, who have accomplished the same journey as he,
are returning, bearingwith os empty hands. “And
now Aeolus hasgiven him these gifts, granting them
freely of his love. Nay, come, let us quickly sce
what is here, what store of gold’ and silver is in the
wallet.”
   “Sotheyspoke,andthe evil eounselofmy comrades
prevailed. ‘They loosed the wallet, and all the winds
leapt forth, and swiftly the storm-wind seized them
   +Or the allasion may be to the fires of the herdsmen,
                                                         347

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_368>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 49-75
and bore them weeping out to sea away from their
native land but as for me, 1awoke, and pondered in
my goodly heart whether [ should fing myself from
 the ship and perish in the sea, or endure in silence
and stillremain among the living. However, I en-
dured and abode, and covering my head lay down in
 the ship. But the ships wereborne by an evil blast
οἵ wind back to the Acolian isle; and my comrades
groaned.
         yere we went ashore and drew water, and
straightway my comrades took their meal by the
swift ships. But when we had tasted of food and
drink, I took with me a herald and one companion
and went to the glorious palac
found him feasting beside his wife and his children.
So we entered the house and sat down by the door-
posts on the threshold, and they were amazed at
heart, and questioned ts:
   “««* How hast thou come hither, Odysseus? What
cruel god assailed thee? Surely we sent thee forth
with kindly care, that thou mightest reach thy
native land and thy home, and whatever place thou
wouldest                   .             a
   “So said they, but Iwith a sorrowing heart spoke
among them and said: "Bane did my evilcomrades
work me, and therewith sleep accursed ;but bring
ye healing, my friends, for with you is the power.’
   “So I spoke and addressed them with gentle words,
but they were silent. Then their father answered
and said:
   “Begone from our island with speed, thou vilest
of all that live, In no wise may I help or send upon
his way that snan who is hated of the blessed gods.
Begone, for thou comest hither as one hated of the
immortals.”                      2
                                                 349

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_370>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 76-101
     “So saying, he sent me forth from the house,
groaning heavily. Thence we sailed on, grieved
at heart. And worn was the spirit of the men by
the grievous rowing, because of our own folly, for
no longer appeared any breeze to bear us on. our
way. 80 for six days we sailed, night and day alike,
and on the seventh we came to the lofty citadel of
Lamus, even to Telepylus of the Lacstrygonians,
where herdsman calls to herdsman as he drives in
his flock, and the other answers as he drives his
forth. There a man who never slept could have
carned a double wage, one by herding cattle, and
ane by pastring white sheep for the outgoings of
the night and of the day are close together. When
we had come thither int the goodly harbour, about,
which on both sides a sheer cliff runs continuously,
‘and projecting headlands opposite to one another
stretch out at the mouth, and the .entrance is
narrow, then all the rest steered their eurved ships
in, and the ships were moored within the hollow
harbour close together;for therein no wave ever
swelled, great or small, but all about was abright
calm. But Lalone moored my black ship outside, there
on the border of the land, making the cables fast. to
the rock, Then I climbed to a rugged height, a
point of outlook, and there took my stand; from
thence no works of oxen or of men appeared;
smoke alone we saw springing up from the land.
So then I sent forth some of my comrades to go and
learn who the men were, who here ate bread’ upon
flock forth for the following day. Thus aman who could
do{s'plainiy
        withoutduosleepto some
                          cosld vagae
                                  earn aknowledge
                                          double ofwathe
                                                     ge. The
                                                          Ἰαπὰ pases
                                                                οἱ the
      bight aun,
                                                                   351

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_372>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 102-125
 the earth—two men I chose, and sent with them
 ἃ third as a herald. Now when they had gone
 ashore, they went along ἃ smooth road by which
 waggons were wont to bring wood down to the city
 from the high mountains. And before the city they
 met a maiden drawing water, the goodly 1 daughter
 of Laestrygonian Antiphates, who had come down to
 the fair-lowing spring Artacia, from whence they
 ‘were wont to bear water to the town, So they eame
 up to her and spoke toher, and asked her who was
 king of this folk, and who they: were of whom he
 was lord. And ‘she sowed them forthwith the
 high-roofed house of her father. Now when they
 had entered the glorious house, they found there his
 wife, huge as the peak of amountain, and they
 were aghast at her. At once she called from the
 place of assembly the glorious Antiphates, her hus-
 band, and he devised for them woeful destruction.
 Straightway he seized one of my comrades and made
 ready his meal, but the other two sprang up and
 came in flight to the ships. Then he raised a ery
 throughout the city, and as they heard it the
 mighty Laestrygonians came thronging from all
sides, a host past counting, nat like men but like the
 Giants, They hurled at us from the cliffs with
rocks huge as ἃ man could lift, and at once there
rose throughout the ships a dreadful din, alike from
men that were dying and from ships that were
being crushed. And spearing them like fishes they
bore them home, a loathly meal. Now while they
were'slaying those within the deep harbour, I mean-
               i of Penelope, and more than once of other
‘women, inτ                    νι connotationistobe thought
of, T have preferred to give a more general rendering.
                                                        353

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_374>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Χ. 126-153
while drew my sharp sword from beside my thigh,
and cut therewith the cables of my dark-prowed
ship; and quickly calling to my comrades bade
them fall to their oars, that we might escape from
out our evil plight. And they all tossed the sea
with their oar-blades in fear of death, and joyfully
seaward, away from the beetling cliffs, my ship sped
on but all hose other ships were "lost together
there.
   “Thence we sailed on, grieved at heart, glad to
have escaped death, though we had lost our dear
comrades ;and we came to the isle of Aeaea, where
Awelt       fair-tressed Circe,a dread goddess of human
speech, own sister to Aectes of baneful mind; and
both ate sprung ftom Helis, who gives light to
mortals, and from Perse,their mother,whom Oceanus
begot. "Here we put in to shore with our ship in
silence, into ἃ harbour where ships may.lie, and
some god guided us, Then we disembarked, and
lay there for two days and two nights, eating our
hearts for weariness and sorrow, But when fair-
tressed Dawn brought to its birth the third day,
then 1 took my spear and my sharp sword, and
quickly went up from the ship to a place of wide
prospect, in the hope that I might see the works of
men, and hear their voice. So I climbed to a
rugged height, a place of outlook, and there took
my stand, and Tsaw smoke rising from the broad-
wayed earth in the halls of Circe, through the thick
brush and the wood, And I debated in mind and
heart, whether      Ishould go and make search, when
T had seen the flaming smoke. And as I pondered,
this seemed to me to be the better way, to go first
                                                   355

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_376>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 154-120
to the swift ship and the shore of the sea, and give
my comrades their meal, and send them forth to
make search. But when, as I went, | was near to the
curved ship, then some god took pity on me in my
loneliness, aud sent agreat, high-horned stag into my
very path. He was coming down to the river from




I plucked twigs and osicrs, and weaving a rope as it
were a fathoun in length, well twisted from end to
end, I bound together the feet of the monstrous
beast, and went my waytothe black ship, bearing
him aeross my back and leaning on my spear, since
ἴα no wise could I hold him on my shoulder with one
hand, for he was a very mighty beast. Down I flung
him ‘before the ship, and heartened my comrades
with gentle words, coming up to each man in turn:
   “Friends, not yet shall we go down to the house
of Hades, despite our sorrows, before the day of
fate comes upon us. Nay, come, while there is
yet food and drink in our swift ship, let us bethinke
sof fod, that we pine not with hanger’
   So I spoke, and they quickly hearkened to my
words. From their faces they drew their cloaks,
and marvelled at the stag on the shore of the
unresting sea, for he was a very mighty beast. But
  The Greek veiled his face under stress of despairing
                                                  351

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_378>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 181-210
 when they had satisfied their eyes with gazing, they
 washed their hands, and made ready a glorious feast.
 So then all day long till set of sun we sat feasting
‘on abundant flesh and sweet wine. But when the
sun set and darkness came on, then we lay down
to rest on the shore of the sea. And as soon as
carly Dawn appeared, te rosy-fngered I ealed my
men together, and spoke among them all :
   “«Hearken to my words, comrades, for all your
evil plight. My friends, we know not where the
darkness is or where the dawn, neither where the:
sun, who gives light to mortals, goes beneath
the earth, nor where he rises;but let us straightway
take thought if any deviee be still left us. As for me
I think not that there is. For I climbedtoa rugged
point of outlook, and beheld the island, about which
is sct as a crown the boundless deep. The isle
itself lies low, and in the midst of it my eyes saw
smoke through the thick brush and the wood.”
   “So I spoke, and their spirit was broken within
them, as they remembered the deeds of the Laes-
trygonian, Antiphates, and the violence of the
great-hearted Cyclops, the man-eater. And they
wailed aloud, and shed big tears. But no good
came of their mourning,
   “Then I told off in ὕπο bands all my well-greaved
‘comrades, and appointed a leader for each band.
Of the one I took command, and of the other
godlike Barylochas. Quickly then we shook: lote
in a brazen helmet, and out leapt the lot of great-
hearted Enrylochus. So he set out, and with
him went two-and-twenty comrades, all weeping ;
and they Jeft us behind, lamenting. Within the
forest glades they found ‘the house of Circe, built
                                                   359

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_380>>>
THE ODYSSRY, X. 211-236
 of polished stone in ἃ place of wide outlook,’ and
 round about it were mountain wolves and lions,
 whom Circe herself had bewitched; for she gave
 them evil drags. Yet these beasts did not rush
 upon my men, but pranced about them fawningly,
 wagging their long tails. And as when hounds
 fawn around their master as he comes from a
 feast, for he ever brings them bits to soothe
their temper, so about them fawned the stout-
clawed wolves and lions ;but they were seized with
fear, as they saw the dread monsters. So they
stood in the gateway of the fair-tressed goddess,
and within they heard Circe singing with sweet
voice, as she went to and fro before a great
imperishable web, such as is the handiwork of
goddesses, finely-woven and beautiful, and glorious.
‘Then among them spoke Polites, a leader of men,
dearesttome of my comrades, and trustiest :
   “«¢Friends, within someone goes to and fro before
a great web, singing sweetly, so that all the floor
echoes; some goddess it is, or some woman. Come,
let us quickly call to her.’
   “So he spoke, and they cried aloud, and called
to her. And she straightway came forth and opened
the bright doors, and bade them inj and all went
with her in their folly. Only Burylochus remained
behind, for he suspected that there was a snare.
She brought them in and made them sit on chairs
‘and seats, and made for them a potion of cheese
and barley meal and yellow honey with Pramnis
wine; but in the food she mixed baneful drugs, that
they might utterly forget their native land. Now
sitoated  in an open glade orcletrng.Ῥ ‘Tho ile itaet was
low (line 196). oe
                                                      361

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_382>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 237-263
when she had given them the potion, and they
had drunk it off, then she presently smote them
with her wand, and penned them in the sties.
And they had the heads, and voice, and bristles,
and shape of swine, but ther minds remained
unchanged even as before. So they were penned
there weeping, and before them Citce. flung mast
and acorns, and the fruit of the cornel tree, to
eat, such things as wallowing swine are wont to
feed upon.
     “But Burylochus came back straightway to the
swift, black ship, to bring tiding of bis comrades
and their shameful doom. Not a word could he
utter, for all his desire, so stricken to the heart
was he with great distress, and his eyes were filled
with tears, and his spirit was set on lamentation.
But when we questioned him in amazement, then
he told the fate of the others, his comrades.
     ‘We went through the thickets, as thou badest;
noble Odysseus. We found in the forest glades a
   ir palace, built of polished stones, in a place of
     jde outlook. ‘There someone was going to and
fro before a great web, and singing with clear voice,
some goddess or some woman, and they cried aloud,
‘and called to her. And she came forth straightway,
and opened the bright doors, and bade them in;
and they all went with her in their folly. But I
remained behind, for I suspected that there was
‘a snare. Then they all vanished together, nor did
one of them appear again, though I sat long and
watched.”
     “So he spoke, and I cast my silver-studded sword
about my shoulders, a great sword of bronze, and
slung my bow about me, and bade him lead me
                                                 363

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_384>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 264-290
back by the self'same road. But he clasped me
with both hands, and besought me by my knees,
and with wailing he spoke to me winged words:
   “Lead me not thither against my will, O thou
fostered of Zeus, but leave me here. For I know
that thou wilt neither come back thyself, nor bring
anyone of thy comrades. Nay, with these that
are here let us flee with all speed, for still we
‘may haply escape the evil day.”
   So he spoke, but I answered him, and sai
‘«Burylochus, do thou stay here in this place, eating
and drinking by the hollow, black ship; but I will
  >,for strong necessity islaid upon me.”
Py pang: | wentog          on ἔμ ann oO                  κα,
But when, as I went through the sacred glades,
Twas about to come to the great house of the
sorceress, Circe, then Hermes, of the golden wand,
met me as I went toward the house, in the likeness
of ἃ young man with the first dowa upon his lip,
in whom the charm of youth is fairest. He clasped
my hand, and spoke, and addressed me :
   “Whither now again, hapless man, dost thou
alone through the    hills, knowing naught, of the
country? Lo, thy comrades yonder in the house of
Cire are penned like swing in close-barred_sties.
And art thon come to release them? Nay, I tell
thee, thon shalt not thyself return, but shalt remain
there with the others. But come, I will free thee
from harm, and save thee. Here, take this potent
herb, and go to the house of        Circe, and it shall ward
off from thy head the evil day.’ And I will tell
thee all the banefal wiles of Circe. She will mix
thee a potion, and east drugs into the food; but
                                                       365

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_386>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 291-317
 even $0 she shall not be able to bewitch thee, for
 the potent herb that I shall give thee will not suffer
it, And I will tel thee all. When Circe shall
smite thee with her long wand, then do thou
draw thy sharp sword from beside thy thigh, and
rush upon Circe, as though thou wouldst slay her.
 And she will be seized with fear, and will bid
thee lie with her. “Then do not thou thereafter
refuse the couch of the goddess, that she may set
free thy comrades, and give entertainment to thee.
But bid her swearagreat oath by the blessed gods,
that she will not plot against thee any fresh mis-
chief to thy hurt, Test when she has thee stripped
‘she may render thee a weakling and unmanned.’
    So saying, Argetphontes gave me the herb, draw-
ing it from the ground, and showed me its nature.
At the root it was black, but fts flower was like
milk, Moly the gods call it, and it is hard for
mortal men to dig; but with the gods all things
are possible. Hermes then departed to high
Olympus through the wooded isle, and I went
my way to the house of Circe, and many things
did my heart darkly ponder as I went. So I
stood at the gates of the fair-tressed goddess.
There I stood and called, and the goddess heard
my voice. Straightway then she came forth, ard
opened the bright doors, and bade me inj and
ΤΟ went with her, my heart sore troubled. She
brought me in and made me sit on a silver-studded
chair, a beautiful chair, richly wrought, and beneath
‘was a foot-stool for the feet. And she prepared me
ἃ potion in a golden cup, that I might drink, and
put therein a drug, with evil purpose in her Heart
                                                  367

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_388>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 318-344
Bat when she had given it me, and I had drunk
it off, yet was not bewitched, she smote me with her
wand, and spoke, and addressed me: ‘Begone now
to the sty, and lie with the rest of thy comeades’
   So she spoke, but 1, drawing my sharp sword
from beside my’ thigh, rushed upon Circe, as
though I would slay her. But she, with a loud
ery, ran beneath, and clasped my knees, and
with wailing she spoke to me winged words:
   «Who art thou among men, and from whence?
Where is thy city, and where thy parents? Amaze-
ment holds me that thou hast drunk this charm
and wast in no wise bewitched. For no man
αἶσα soever hath withstood this charm, when once
he has drunk it, and it has passed’ the barrier
of his teeth. Nay, but the mind in thy breast
is one not to be beguiled. Surely thou art
Odysseus, the man of ready device, who Arget-
phontes of the golden wand ever said to me would
come hither on his way home from Troy with his
swift, black ship. Nay, come, put up thy sword in
its sheath, and let us two then go up into my bed,
that couched together in love we may put trust in
each other.”
   “So she spoke, but I answered her, and said :
    ree, how canst thou bid me be gentle to thee,
who hast turned my comrades into swine in thy
halls, and now keepest me here, and with guileful
purpose biddest me go to thy’ chamber, and go
up into thy bed, that when thou hast me stripped
thou mayest render me ἃ weakling and unmanned?
Nay, verily, it is not I that shall be fain to go
up into thy bed, unless thou, goddess, wilt consent
to swear a mighty oath that thou wilt not plot
against me any fresh misthief to my hort! ΠῚ). ον
   vou ιν                                    N

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_390>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 345-374
    “So I spoke, and she straightway swore the oath
 to do me no harm, as I bade her. But when
 she had sworn, and made an end of the oath,
 then I went up to the besutiful bed of Circe.
    “But her handmaids meanwhile were busied inthe
 halls, four maidens who are her serving-women in
the house. Children are they of the springs and
groves, and of the sacred rivers that flow forth
fo the sea, and of them one threw upon chairs
fair rugs of purple above, and spread beneath
them a linen cloth; another drew up before the
chairs tables of silver, and set upon them golden
baskets; and the third mixed sweet, honey-hearted.
wine ina bowl of silver, and served out golden
cups; and the fourth brought water, and kindled
‘a great fire beneath a large cauldron, and the water
grew warm, But when the water boiled in the
Bright bronze, she set me in a bath, and bathed
me with water from out the great cauldron, mixing
it to my liking, and pouring it over my head
and shoulders, til she took from my limbs soul
consuming weariness. But when she had bathed
me, and anointed me richly with oil, and had
cast about me a fair cloak and ἃ tunic, she brought
me into the hall, and made me sit upon a silver-
studded chair—a bewutiful chair, richly wrought,
and beneath was a foot-stool for’ the fect. Then
ἃ handmaid brought water for the. hands in ἃ fair
pitcher of gold, and poured it over a silver basin
for me to wash, and beside me drew up a polished
table. And the grave housewife brought and set
before me bread, and therewith meats in abundance,
granting freely of her store. Then she bade me ent,
But my heart inclined not thereto, Rather, Isat
with other thoughts, and my spirit boded i.” Ὶ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_392>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 375-401
    “Now when Circe noted that I sat thus, and did
 not put forth my hands to the food, but was
 bardened with sore grief, she came close to me,
 and spoke winged words:
    ««<Why, Odysseus, dost thou sit thus like one that
 isdumb, eating thy heart, and dost: not touch food
 or drink? Dost thou haply forbode some other
 guile? Nay, thou needest in no wise fear, for
‘already have I sworn a mighty oath to do thee
 no harm."
    So she spoke, but I answered her, and said:
 ‘Circe, what man’ that is right-minded could bring
 himself to taste of food or drink, ere yet he had
won freedom for his comrades, and beheld them
before his face? But if thou of ἃ veady heart
dost bid me eat and drink, set them free, that mine
eyes may behold my trasty comrades.”
   “So Ispoke, and Circe went forth through the hall
holding her wand in her hand, and opened the
doors of the sty, and drove them out in the
form of swine of nine years old. So they stood
there before her, and she went through the midst
of them, and anointed cach man with another
charm. ‘Then from their limbs the bristles fell
away which the baneful drug that queenly Circe
gave them had before made to grow, and they
became men again, younger than they were before,
and far comelier and taller to look upon. They:
Knew me, and clung to my hands, each man of
them, and upon them all came a passionate sobbing,
and the house about them rang wondrously, and the
goddess herself wasmoved to pity.
   “Then the beautiful goddess drew near me, and
said: ‘Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus
                                                  373

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_394>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 402-439
     of many devices, go now to thy swift ship and to
     the shore of the sea. First of all do ye draw the
     ship up on the Iand, and store your goods and
     all the tackling in eaves. Then come back thyself,
    and bring thy trusty comrades.
        So she spoke, and my proud heart consented.
     I went my way to the swift ship and the shore
'   of the sea, and there I found my trusty comrades
    by the swift ship, wailing piteously, shedding bi
    tears, And as when calvesina farmstead sport
    about the droves of cows returning to the yard,
    when they have had their fill of grazing—all
    together they isk before them, and the pens no
    longer hold them, but with constant lowing they
    ran about their mothers—so those men, when their
    eyes beheld me, thronged about me weeping, and
    it seemed to their hearts as though they hed got
    to their native land, and the very city of rugged
    Ithaca, where they were bred and born. And with
    ‘wailing they spoke  tomewinged words:
        “At thy return, Ὁ thoufostered of Zeus, we
    are as glad as though we had returned to Ithaca, our
    native land. But come, tell the fate of the others,
    ‘our comrades.”
        “So they spoke, and 1 answered them with gentle
    words: *Fiatofall let us draw the ship up on the
    land, and store our goods and all the tackling in caves.
    Then haste you, one and all, to go with me that you
    may see your comrades in the sacred halls of Circe,
    drinking ‘and eating, for they have unfailing store.’
        “So I spoke, and they quickly hearkened       toτον
    words, Eurylochus alone sought to hold beck all
    my comrades, and he spoke, and addressed them
    with winged words :
                                                         375

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_396>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 431-459
    «Ah, wretched men, whither are we going?
 Why are you so enamoured of these woes, as to
go down to the house of Circe, who will change
us all to swine, or wolves, or lions, that so we
may guard her great house perforce? Even so
did the Cyclops, when our comrades went to his
fold, and ‘with them went this reckless Odysseus.
For it was through this man’s folly that they too
perished.’
   “So he spoke, and I pondered in heart, whether
to draw my long sword from beside my stout
thigh, and therewith strike off his head, and bring
it tothe ground, near kinsman of mine by marriage
though he was; but my comrades one after another
sought to check me with gentle words:
   “© thou sprang from Zeus, as for this man, we
will leave him, if thou so biddest, to abide here
by the ship, and to guard the ship, but as for
us, do thou lead us to the sacred house of Circe.’
   ‘So saying, they went up from the ship and the
sea, Nor wasEurylochus left beside the hollow ship,
but he went with us, for he feared my dread reproof.
   “Meanwhile in her halls Circe bathed the rest
of my comrades with kindly care, and anointed
them richly with ofl, and east about them fleecy
cloaks and tunies; and we found them all feastinj
bountifully in the halls. But when they saw anc
recognized one another, face to face, they wept
and wailed, and the house rang around. Then the
beautiful goddess drew neer me, and said :
   “No longer now do ye rouse this plenteous
lamenting. Of myself I know both all the woes
you have sufered on the teeming deep, and all
the wrong that cruel men have done you on the
                                                   377

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_398>>>
THE ODYSSEY, Χ. 460-489
 land. Nay, come, eat food and drink wine, antil
you once more get spirit in your breasts such as
When at the first you left, your native land of rugged
 Ithaca; but now ye are withered and spiritless, ever
thinking of your weary wanderings, nor are your
hearts ever Joyful, for verily ye! have sufered
    “So she spoke, and our proud hearts consented.
So there day after day for a full year we abode,
feasting on abundant flesh and sweet wine, But
when a year was gone and the seasons turned, as
the months waned and the long days were brought
fn their course, then my trusty comrades called me
forth, and said:
   ««¢Strange man, bethink thee now at last of thy
native land, if it is fated for thee to be saved,
and to reach thy high-roofed house and thy native
land.’
   “So they spoke, and my proud heart consented.
So then all day long till set of sun we sat feasting
fon abundant flesh and sweet wine. But when
the sun set and darkness came on, they lay down
to sleep throughout the shadowy halls, but I went
up to the beautiful bed of Circe, and besought
her by her knees; and the goddess heard my voice,
and I spoke, and addressed her with winged word:
    “Circe, fulfilforme thepromise which thou gavest
to send me home; for my spirit is now eager to be
gone, and the spirit of my comrades, who make
my heart to pine, as they sit about me mourning,
‘wlenasever   thou haply ar¥not at hand.
    “So I spoke, and the beantiful goddess stranghtway
made answer: ‘Son of Leertes, sprung from Zeus,
 Odssseus of many devices, abide ye now no longer
                                                   379

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_400>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 490-517
 in my house against your will; but you must first
 complete another journey, and come to the house
 of Hades and dread Persephone, to seek soothsaying
 of the spirit of Theban Teiresias, the blind seer,
 whose mind abides steadfast. To him even in
 death Persephone has granted reason, that he alone
 should have understanding; but the others fit about
 ‘as shadows.’
     “So she spoke, and my spirit was broken within
 me, and I wept as I sat on the bed, nor had my
 hheart any longer desire to live and behold the
 light of the sun, But when I had had my fill of
 weeping and writhing, then I made answer, and
 addressed her, saying:
     £0 Circe, who will gaide us on this journey?
 To Hades no man ever yet went in a black ship.’
     «So I spoke, and the beaatiful goddess straightway
 made answer: ‘Son of Leertes, sprung from Zeus,
 Odysseus of many devices, let there be in thy
 mind no concer for a pilot to guide thy ship
wut    set-up thy mast, and spread’       thewhite eal,
and sit thee down; and the breath of the North
 Wind will bear her onward, But when in thy
ship thou hast now crossed the stream of Oceanus,
where isa level shore and the groves of Perse-
phone—tall poplars, and willows that shed their
fruit—there do thou beach thy ship by the deep
eddying Oceanus, but go thyselftothe dank house
of Hades. ‘There into Acheron flow Periphlegethon
and Cocytus, which is a branch of the water of
the Styx; and there is a rock, and the meeting
place of the two roaring rivers. Thither, prince,
do thou draw nigh, as Ibid thee, and dig a pit
of a cubit’s length this way and that, and around
             105, “es thoutarviest by thy ship.”
                                                    381

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_402>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 518-545
    it pour ἃ libation  to all the dead, first with milk
    and honey, thereafter with sweet wine, and in
    the third place with water, and sprinkle thereon
    white barley meal. And do thou earnestly entreat,
    the powerless heads of the dead, vowing that when
    thou comest to Ithaca thou wilt sacrifice in th
    halls a barren heifer, the best thou hast, and wilt
|   fill the altar with rich gifts; and that to Teiresins
    alone thou wilt sacrifice separately a ram, wholly
    black, the goodliest of thy flock. But when with
|   prayers thou hast made supplication to the glorious
    tribes of the dead, then sacrifice a ram and a
    black ewe, tuming their heads toward Erebus
    but thyself turning backward, and setting thy face
    towards the streams of the river. Then many
    ghosts of men that are dead will come forth,
    But do thon thereafter call to thy comrades, and
    bid them flay and burn the sheep that lie there,
    slain by the pitiless bronze, and make prayer to
    the gods, to mighty Hades and to dread Perse-
    phone. And do thou thyself draw thy sharp sword
    from beside thy thigh, and sit there, not suffering
    the powerless heads of the dead to draw near to
    the blood, till thou hast enquired of Teiresias.
    Then the seer will presently come to thee, leer
    of men, and he will tell thee thy way and the
    measures of thy path, and of thy return, how thou
    mayest go over the teeming deep.’
        So she spoke, and straightway came golden-
    throned Dawn, Round about me then she cast
    a cloak and tunic as raiment, and the nymph
    clothed herself in a long white robe, finely-woven
    and beautiful, and about her waist she cast a fair
    girdle of gold, end upon her head she put a veil.
                                                    383

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_404>>>
THE ODYSSEY, X. 546-574
 But Iwent through the halls, and roused my men
 with gentle words, coming up to each man in turn
    “<No longer now sleep ye, and drowse in sweet
 slumber, bat let us go; Io! queenly Ciere has told
 me al .”
    “So I spoke, and their proud hearts consented
 Bat not even from thence could I lead my men
 unseathed, ‘There was one, Elpenor, the youngest
 of all, not over valiant in war nor sound of
 understanding, who had laid him down apart from
 his comrades in the stcred house of Circe, seeking
 the cool air, for he was heavy with wine. He
 heard the noise and the bustie of his comrades
 as they moved about, and suddenly sprang up,
and forgot to go to the long ladder that he might
 come down again, but fell headlong from the roof,
and his neck was’ broken away from the spine, and
his spirit went down to the house of Hades.
    “But as my men were going on their way T
spoke among them, saying: *Ye think, forsooth,
that ye are going to your dear native land; but
Circe’ has pointed out for us another journey, even
to the house of Hades and dread Persephone, to
consult the spirit of Theban Teiresias.”
    “So I spoke, and their spirit was broken within
them, and sitting down right where they were,
they ‘wept and tore their hair. But no good came
of their lamenting.
    “But when we were on our way to the swift
ship and the shore of the sea, sorrowing and
shedding big tears, meanwhile Cire had gone
forth and made fast beside the black ship « ram
and a black ewe, for easily had she passed us by.
Who with his eyes could behold a god against his
will, whether going to or fro?                  a8

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_406>>>
ΒΟΟΚ      ΧΙ

   “Bur when we had come down to the ship and to
the sea, first of all we drew the ship down to the
bright sea, and set the mast and sail in the black
ship, and took the sheep and put them aboard, and
ourselves embarked, sorrowing, and shedding big
tears. And for our aid in the wake of our dark-
prowed ship ἃ fair wind that filled the sail,a goodly
Gomrade was sent by falrtresed Circe, dread god.
dess of human speech. So when we had made fast
all the tackling throughout the ship, we sat down,
and the wind and the helmsman made straight her
course, All the day long her sail was stretched as
she sped over the sea; and the sun set and all the
ways grew dark,
   ἄξιο came to deep-fowing Oceanus, that bounds
the Barth,} where is the land and city of the Cim-
metians, wrapped in mist and cloud. Never does
the bright sun look down on them with his rays
either when he mounts the starry heaven or when
he turns again to earth from heaven, but baneful
night is spread over wretched mortals. Thither we
came and beached our ship, and took out the sheep,
and ourselves went beside the stream of Oceanus
until we came to the place of which Circe had
told us,
   “Here Perimedes ani Eurylochus held the victims,
while I drew my sharp sword from beside my thigh,
        4Or, possibly, ‘toOcean'sfurther marge.”
                                                 387

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_408>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 25-54

with milk and honey, thereafter with sweet wine,
and in the third place with water, aud I sprinkled
thereon white barley meal. And I earnestly entreated
the powerless heads of the dead, vowing that when
Leame to Ithaca I would sacrifice in my halls a
barren heifer, the best I had, and pile the altar with
seodly gifts, and to Telesis alone would sucriice
separately a ram, wholly black, the goodliest of my
flocks. But when with vows and prayers I had made
supplication to the tribes of the dead, I took the
sheep and cut their throats over the pit, and the
dark blood ran forth. Then there gathered from
out of Erebus the spirits of those that are dead,
brides, and unwedded youths, and toil-worn old men,
and tender maidens with hearts yet new to sorrow,
‘and many, too, that had been wounded with bronze-
tipped spears, men slain in fight, wearing their blood-
stained armour. ‘These came thronging in crowds
‘about the pit from every side, with a wondrous ery 3
‘and pale fear seized me. Then Icalled to my com-
rades and bade them fay and burn the sheep that
lay there slain with the pitiless bronze, and to make
prayer to the gods, to mighty Hades and dread Per-
sephone. And I myself drew my sharp sword from
beside my thigh and stt there, and would not suffer
the powerless heads of the dead to draw near to the
lod until I had enquired of Teiresias,
   “The first to come was the spirit of my comrade
Elpenor. Not yet had he been buried beneath the
broad-wayed earth, for we had left his corpse behind
us in the hall of Circe, unwept and unburied, since
another task was then urging us on. When Isaw him
                                                    389

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_410>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 55-8:
I wept, and my heart had compassion on him; and I
spoke and addressed him with winged words:
   «<Blpenot, how didst thou come beneath the
murky darkness? Thou coming on foot hast out-
stripped me in my black ship.”
    So I spoke, and with a groan he answered me and
said: ‘Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus
of many devices, an evil doom of some god was my
undoing, and measureless wine. When I had lain
down to sleep in the house of Circe I did not think to
go to the long ladder that I might come down again,
but fell headiong from the roof, and my neck was
broken away fromthe spine and my spirit went down,
to the house of Hades. Now I beseech thee by those
whom we left behind, who are not present with us,
by thy wife and thy father who reared thee when a
babe, and by Telemachus whom thou didst leave an
onlysonin thy halls; forIknow that as thou goest
hhence from the house of Hades thou wilt touch at
the Acacan isle with thy well-built ship. There,
then, O prince, I bid thee remember me. Leave me
not behind thee unwept and unburied as thou goest
‘thence, andturn notaway from'me, lest haply I bring
the wrath of the gods upon thee. Nay, burn me with
‘my armour, all that is mine, and heap up a mound
for me on the shore of the grey sea, in memory of an
unhappy man, that men yet to be may learn of me.
Fulfil this my prayer, and fix upon the mound τοὶ
car whereyith 1rowed ia fe wien T was among toy
comrades.”
   So he spoke, and Imade answer and said: ‘All
this, unhappy man, will I perform and do.’
   “Thus we two sat and held sad converse one with
                                                 391

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_412>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 82-108
the other, I on one side holding my sword over the
 blood, while on the other side the phantom of my
‘comrade spoke at large.
    “Then there came up the spirit of my dead
mother, Anticleia, the daughter of great-hearted
‘Autolycus, whom T had left alive when I departed
 for sacred ios. At sight of her I wept, and my
 heart had compassion on her, but even so I would
 not suffer her to come near the blood, for all my
great sorrow, until 1 had enquired of Teiresias.
    “Then there came up the spirit of the Theban
Teiresias, bearing his golden staff in his hand, and
he knew me and spoke to me: ‘Son of Laertes,
sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of many devices, what
now, hapless man? Why hast thou left the lightof
the sun and come hither to behold the dead and a
region where is no joy? Nay, give place from the
pit and draw back thy sherp sword, that I may drink
of the blood and tell thee sooth.”
    “So he spoke, and I gave place and thrust my
silver-studdeg sword into its sheath, and when he
had drunk the dark blood, then: the blameless seer
     ke to me and said:
    “Thou askest of thy honey-sweet retum, glorious
Odysseus, but this shall a god make grievous unto
thee; for I think not that thou shalt elude the
Earth-shaker, seeing that he has laid up weath in
his heart against thee, angered that thou didst blind
his dear son, Yet even so ye may reach home,
hough in evil plight, if thou wilt curb thine own
spirit and that of thy comrades, as soon as thou shalt.
biog thy. wellbuilt ship to the sland, Thrinacia,
escaping from the violet sea, and ye find          grazin
there the Kine and goodly Rocks af Helies,who
                                                  393

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_414>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 109-135
oversees and overhears all things. If thon leavest
these unharmed and heedest thy homeward way,
verily ye may yet reach [thaca, though in evil plight.
 But if thou harmest them, then I foresee ruin for
thy ship and thy comrades, and even if thou shalt
thyself eseape, late shalt thou come home and in
     ‘ease, after losing all thy comrades, in a ship that
is another's, and thou shalt find woes in thy house-—
proud men’ that devour thy livelihood, wooing thy
godlike wife, and offering wooers’ gifts. Yet verily
fon their violent deeds shalt thou take vengeance
when thou comest.        But when thou hast slain the
Yrooers in thy halls, whether by guile or openly with
the sharp sword, then do. thougofortiy taking a
shapely oar, until thou comest to men that know
naught of the sea and eat not of food mingled with
πεῖν aye, and they know naught of ships with purple
cheeks, or of shapely ous that are as wing? unto
Ships, "And Iwill el thee a sign right manifest,
‘which will not escape thee. When another wayfarer,
δαmecting thee, shall say tha thou hastawinnowing-
fan on thy stout shoulder, then do thou fx in the
earth thy shapely oar and make goodly offerings to
ford. Poseidon-—a ram, and a bolfy and ἃ boar that
mates with sows—and depart for thy home and offer
sacred hecatombs to the immortal’ gods who hold
‘broad heaven, to each one in due order.   And death
shall come to thee thyself far from the sea? a death
80 gentle, that shall lay thee low when thou art over-
 seylo” poom,attrbated to Boguramon
ΓΤ                         Caen     αἱree,
 penpet ith Ine Woewen nth Tay
        foundation iathethe Odes,  and that
                                       thor thes
                                             who fines
                                                 adoptarethe
edeviog     ftom
ἐμῶν itepolation   out      ne  essa
                                           ὃ            395

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_416>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 136-162
come with sleek! old age, and thy people shall dwell
in prosperity sound thee. ἴα this have 1 told thee
sooth.”
   “Sohe spoke, and Imade answer and said:‘Teire-
sias, of all this, I ween, the gods themselves have
spun the thread, But come,tellme this,and declare
it truly. I see here the spirit of my dead mother;
she sits in silence near the blood, and deigns not to
look upon the face of her own’son oF to speak to
him, ‘Tell me, prince, how she may recognize that
Tam he?”
   “So I spoke, and he straightway made answer,
and said: ‘Easy is the word that I shall say and
put in thy mind. Whomsoever of those that are
dead and gone thou shalt suffer to draw near the
blood, he will tell thee sooth ;but whomsoever thou
refusest, he surely will go back again.”
   “So saying the epi of the prince, Teresa,
went back into the house of Hades, when he had
declaredhisprophecies ;but I remained there stead-
fastly until my mother came up and drank the dark
blood. At once then she knew me, and with wailing
she spoke to me winged words:
   «ἘΜ child, how didst thou come beneath the
murky darkness, being still alive? Hard is it for
those that live to behold these realms, for between
are great rivers and dread streams; Oceanus first,
which one may in no wise cross on foot, but only
if one have a well-built ship. Art thou but now
come hither from Troy after long wanderings with
thy ship and thy compaaions? and hast thou not
yet reached Ithaca, nor seen thy wife in thy
halls?’
      2That is, “in tho midst of wealth and comfort,”
                       “                              397

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_418>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 163-191
    So she spoke, and I made answer and said : ‘My
mother, necessity broughtmedown to the house of
 Hades, to teek soothsaying of the spirit of Theban
Teiresias. For not yet have I come near to the
shore of Achaea, nor have I as yet set foot on my
own land, but have ever been wandering, laden with
woe, from the day when first I went with goodly
Agamemnon to Ilios, famed for its horses, to fight
with the Trojans. “But come, tell me this, and
declare it truly. What fate of grievous death over-
came thee? Was it long disease, or did the archer,
Artemis, assail thee with her gentle shafts, and slay
thee? And tell me of my father and my son, whom
Tleft behind me, Does the honour that was mine
still abide with them, or does some other man now
          it, and do they say that T shall no more
return? ‘And tell me of my wedded wife, of her
purpose and of her mind. Does she abide with her
son, and keep all things safe? or has one already
wedded her, whosoever is best of the Achacans?
   “So I spoke, and my honoured mother straight-
way answered : ‘Aye verily she abides with steadfast
heart in thy halls,andever sorrowfully for her do the
nights and the days wane,as she weeps. But the fair
honour that was thine no man yet possesses, but Tele-
machus holds thy demesne unharassed, and feasts at
equal banquets, such  asitisfitting that one who deals
judgment should share, for all men invite him. But
thy father abides there in the tilled land, and comes
not to the city, nor has he, for bedding, bed and
cloaks and bright coverlets, but through the winter
he sleeps in the house, where the slaves sleep, in the
ashes by the fire, and wears upon his body mean
                                                 399

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_420>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 192-219
raiment, But when summer comes and rich autumn,
then all about the slope of his vineyard plot are
strewn his lowly beds of fillen leaves. ‘There he
lies sorrowing, and nurses his great grief in his
hheart, in longing for thy return, and heavy old age
hhas come upon him. Even so did 1 too perish and
meet my fate. Neither did the keen-sighted archer
‘goddess assail me in my halls with her gentle shafts,
and slay me, nor did any disease come upon me,
such as oftenest through grievous wasting takes the
   rit from the limbs; nay, it was longing for thee,
and for thy counsels, glorious Odysseus, and for thy
tender-heartedness, that robbed me of honey-sweet
life.”
    So she spoke, and I pondered in heart, and was
fain to clasp the spirit of my dead mother. Thrice
Τ sprang towards her, and my heart bade me clasp
hher, and thrice she fitted from my arms like a
shadow or a dream, and pain grew ever sharper at
my heart. And I spoke and addressed her with
‘winged words:
    “My mother, why dost thou not stay for me,
who am eagertoclasp thee, that even in the house
of Hades we two may cast our arms ench about the
other, and take our fill of chill lamenting. Is this
but ἃ phantom that august Persephone has sent
me, that I may lament and groan the more?’
    “So I spoke, and my honoured mother straight
way answered: “Ah me, my child, ill-fated above all
men, in no wise does Persephone, the daughter of
Zeus, deceive thee, but this is the appointed way
with’ mortals when one dies. For the sinews no
longer hold the flesh and the bones together, but
                                                  403

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_422>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 220-249
  the strong might of blazing fire destroys these, as
  soon as the life leaves the white bones, and the spi
  like a dream, fits away, and hovers to and fro. But
  haste thee to the light with what speed thou mayest,
  and bear all these things in mind, that thou mayest
  hereafter tell them to thy wife.’
     “Thus we two talked with one another; and the
  women came, for august Persephone sent them
  forth, even all those that had been the wives and
  the daughters of chieftains. These flocked in throngs
 about the dark blood, and I considered how I might
  question each; and this seemed to my mind the
 best counsel. “I drew my long sword from beside
       stout thigh, and would not suffer them to drink
      the dark blood all at one time. So they drew
 near, one after the other, and each declared her
 birth, and I questioned them all.
     ‘Tinen very the frst that T saw was high-born
 ‘Tyro, who said that, she was the daughter ofnoble
 Salmoneus, and declared herself to be the wife of
 Cretheus, son of Aeolus. She became enamoured of
 the river, divine Enipeus, who is far the fairest
 of rivers that send forth their streams upon the
 ‘earth, and she was wont to resort to the fair waters
 of Enipens. But the Enfolder and Shaker of the
 earth took his form, and lay with her at the mouths
 of the eddying river. And the dark wave stood
 about them like a mountain, vaulted-over, and hid
 the god and the mortal woman. And he loosed her
 maiden girdle,    andshed sleep opon her. But when
 thegod fad ended his work of love, he clasped her
       i, and spoke, and addressed her :
 wb glad, woman, in our love, and as the year
goesonits course thon shalt bear glorious children,
                                                     403,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_424>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 250-276
 for not weak are the embraces of a god. These do
 thou tend and rear. But now go to thy housé, and
 hold thy peace, and tell no man; but know’ that
 Tam Poseidon, the shaker of the earth.”
    “So saying, he plunged beneath the surging sea.
 But she conceived and bore Pelias and Neleuss who
 both became strong servants of great Zeus} a
 Pelias dwelt in spneious Ioleus, and was rich in
 flocks, and the other dwelt in sandy Pylos. But her
other children she, the queenly among women, bore
‘to Cretheus, even Aeson, and Pheres, and Amythaon,
who fought from chariots
    “And after her [ saw Antiope, daughter of Asopus,
who boasted that she had slept even in the arms of
Zeus, and she bore two sons, Amphion and Zethus,
who first established the seat of seven-gated Thebe,
and fenced it in with walls, for they could not dwell
in spacious Thebe unfenced, how mighty soever they
were.
    “And after her I saw Alemene, wife of Amphi-
tryon, who lay in the arms of great Zeus, and bore
Heracles, staunch in fight, the lion-hearted. And
Megara I saw, daughter of Creon, high of heart,
whom the son of Amphitryon, ever stubborn in
might, had to wife.
    “And I saw the mother of Oedipodes, fair Epi
caste, who wrought a monstrous deed in ignorance
of mind, in that she wedded her own son, and
he, when he had slain his own father, wedded
her, and straightway the gods made these things
known among men. Howbeit he abode as lord
of the Cadmeans in lovely Thebe, suffering woes
through the baneful counsels of the gods, but she
  +Othersthatrender,
certain        χάρμη in“whose  joy was
                         conneatal  withinχαίρω.
                                           chariots.” butitienot
                                                            495

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_426>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 277-304
went down to the house of Hades, the strong
warder. She made fast a noose on high from a lofty
beam, overpowered by her sorrow, but for him she
left behind woes full many, even all that the Avengers
of amother bring to pass.
   “And I saw beauteous Chloris, whom once Neleus
wedded because of her beauty, when he had brought
countless gifts of wooing. Youngest daughter was
she of Amphion, son of Insus, who once ruled
mightily in Orehomenus of the Minyae, And she
was queen of Pylos, and bore to her husband
glorious children, Nestor, and Chromius, and lordly
Periclymenus, and besides these she bore noble
Pero, a wonder to men. Her all that dwelt about
sought in marriage, but Neleus would give her to no
man, save to him who should drive from Phylace
the kine of mighty Iphicles, sleek and broad of
brow and hard they were to drive. These the
blameless seer alone undertook to drive off; but a
grievous fate of the gods ensnared him, even hard
bonds and the herdsmen of the field. Howbeit
when at length the months and the days were bein,
Trought to fullment, a: the year rolled round, and
the seasons came on, then verily mighty Iphicles re-
leased him, when he had told all the oracles; and
the will of Zeus was fulfilled.
   “And I saw Lede, the wife of Tyndareus, who
bore to Tyndareus two sons, stout of heart, Castor
the tamer of horses, and the boxer Polydeuces.
These two the earth, the giver of life, covers, albeit
alive, and even in the world below they have honour
from Zeus. One day they live in turn, and one day
they are dead and they have won honour like unto
that of the gods.
                                                   497

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_428>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 305-335
      “And after her I saw Iphimedeia, wife of Aloeus,
 who declared that she had lain with Poseidon, She
bore two sons, but short of life were they, godlike
 Otus, and far-famed Ephialtes—men whom the
 earth, the giver of grain, reared as the tallest, and
far the comeliest, after the famous Orion. For at
nine years they were nine cubits in breadth and
in height nine fathoms. Yea, and they threatened
to raise the din of furious war against the immortals
in Olympus. They were fain to pile Ossa on
Olympus, and Pelion, with its waving forests, on
ssa, that so heaven’ might be sealed. And ‘this
they would have accomplished, if they had reached
the measure of manhood ; but the son of Zeus, whom.
fair-haired Leto bore, slew them both before the
down blossomed bencath their temples and covered
their chins with a full growth of beard.
     “And Phaedra and Procris I saw, and fair Ariadne,
the daughter of Minos of baneful mind, whom once
‘Theseus was fain to bear from Crete to the hill of
sacred Athens; but he had no joy of her, for ere
that Artemis slew her in sea-girt Dia because of the
witness of Dionysus.
     “And Maera and Clymene I saw, and hateful
Eriphyle, who took precious gold as the price of the
 life of her own lord. But 1 eannot tell or name all
the wives and daughters of heroes that I saw; ere
that immortal night would, wane, Ney, it is now
time to sleep, either when Ihave gone tothe swift
ship and the crew, or here. My sending shall rest
with the gods, and with you.”
     So he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence,
and were held spell-bound throughout the shadowy
halls. Then among them white-armed Arete was
the first to speak:
                                                   499

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_430>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 336-363
      “Phaeacians, how seems thisman to you for come-
 liness and stature, and for the balanced spirit within
 him?you And
 ofhot      has   a moreover
                     share  in hes
                                this my guest,Wherelore.
                                     honour,    Cough eachbe
        in haste to send him away, nor stint your gifts
 towhich
       one fnle stored
                 such need;    for may are the freures
                        in your ills by the favour of the
 Fe rttlen among them spoke also the old lora Eche-
 neus, who was an elder among the Phaeacians?
 “Friends, verily not wide of the mark or of our
 own thought are the words of our wise queen. Nay,
 dohereyouthatgivedeedheedand towordthem,depend."*
                                              Yet it ἐμ σὰ Alcinosé
     ‘Then again Aleinous answered him and said:
 “This word of hers shall verily hold, as surely as I
live and am lord over the Phaeacians, lovers of the
 four,     Bot let out guest, for all his greet longing
 to retum, nevertheless endure to remain until to
 morrow, till 1 shall make all our gift complete.
 His sending shall rest with the men, with all, but
 most of all with me; for mine is the control in the
   nd.”
+ "Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
 said: “Lord Alcinous, renowned above all men, if
 you should bid me abide here even for a year, and
 hould further my sending, and give glorious gifts,
 even that would I choose; and it would be better

 land Ayo, ond I shoudl ‘win more respect’ and
 far to come with a fuller hand to my dear native

 love from all men who should see nie when I had

    "Then again Alcinons made answer and seid:
 returned to Ithaca.”

 “Odysseus, in no wise as we look on thee do we
                                             ant

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_432>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 364-891
deem this of thee, that thou art a cheat and a
dissembler, such as are many whom the dark earth
breeds scattered far and wide, men that fashion lies
out of what no man can even see. But upon thee is
grace of words, and within thee is a heart of wisdom,
  ind thy tale thou hast told with skill, as doth a min:
strel, even the grievous woes of all the Argives and
of thine own self. But come, tell me this, and
declare it truly, whether thou’ sawest any of thy
godlike comrades, who went to Ilios together with
thee, and there met their fate, ‘The night is before
us, long, aye, wondrous Tong, and it is not yet the
time for sleep in the hall. ‘Tell on, I pray thee, the
tale of these wondrous deeds. Verily I could abide
until bright dawn, so thou wouldest, be willing to
tell in the hall of these woes of thine.”
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
said: “Lord Aleinous, renowned above all men,
‘there is a time for many words and there is ἃ time
also for sleep. But-if thou art fain still to listen,
1would not begrudge te tell thee of other things
more pitiful still than these, even the woes of τ)
         es, who perished afterward, who escaped
from the dread battle-sy of the Trojans, but
perished on their return through the will of an evil
   “When then holy Persephone had scattered this.
way and that the spirits of the women, there came
up the spirit of Agamemnon, son of Atreus, sorrow-
ing; and round about him’ others were gathered,
spirits of all those who were slain with him in the
house of Aegisthus, and met their fate. He knew
me straightway, when he had drunk the dark blood,
and he wept aloud, and shed big tears, and stretched
                       5                             413

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_434>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 392-421
forth his hands toward me eager to reach me. But
no longer had he aught of strength or might remain-
{ing such as of old was in his supple limbs.
   “When I saw him I wept, and my heart had
compassion on him, and I spoke, and addressed him
with winged words: ‘Most glorious son of Atreus,
     ig of men, Agamemnon, what fate of grievous
death overcame thee? Did Poseidon smite          thee
fon board thy ships, when he had roused a furious
blast of eruel winds? Or did foemen work thee
harm on the land, while thoa wast cutting off their
cattle and fair flocks of sheep, or wast fighting to
win their city and their women?”
    “So I spoke, and he straightway made answer
and said: ‘Son of Leertes, sprung from Zeus,
Odysseus of many devices, neither did Poseidon
smite me on board my ships, when he had roused
ἃ furious blast of eruel winds, nor did foemen work
me harm on the land, but Aegisthus wrought, for
me death and fate, and slew me with the aid of
 my accursed wife, when he had bidden me to his
 hhouse and made me a feast, even as one slays an
 ox at the stall. So I died by a most pitiful death,
 and round about me the rest of my comrades were
 slain unceasingly like white-tusked swine, which
 are slaughtered in the house of α rich man of great
 might at αὶ marriage feast, or a joint meal, or a
 Heh drinking-bout. Ere now thou hast been present
                                              combat
 at the slaying of many men, killed in single wouldst
 or ἴα the press ofthe ight but in heart thou
 have felt most pity hadst thou seen that sight,
 hhow about the mixing bowl and the Taden       tables
 we lay in the hall, and the floor all swam with
 Blood. But the most piteous ery that I heard was
                                                   as

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_436>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 422-446
 that of the daughter of Priam, Cassandra, whom
 guileful Clytemnestra slew by my side? And I
 sought to ‘aise my hands and smite down the
 murderess, dying though I was, pierged through
 with the’ sword. But she, the shameless one,
 turned her back upon me, and even though I
 was going to the house of Hades deigned neither
 to draw down my eyelids with her fingers nor to
close my mouth, 80 true is it that there is nothing
 more dread or more shumeless than a woman who
 puts into her heart such deeds, even as she too
devised a monstrous thing, contriving death for
her wedded husband. Verily I thought that I
should come home welcome to my children and to
my slaves; but she, with her heart set on utter
wickedness, has shed shame on herself and on
women yet to be, even upon her that doeth up-
rightly.”
     “So he spoke, and I made answer and said: “Ah,
verily Tin Reus, whose voice ts bore, afar, visited
wondrous hatred on the race of Atreus from the first
Decause of the counsels of women. For Helen's sake
many of us perished,     andagainst thee Clytemnestra
    read a snare whilst thou wast afer.”
     “So I spoke, and he straightway made answer and
said: ‘Wherefore in thine own case be thou never
     ntle even to thy wife. Declare not to her all the
{thoughts ofthy heart, but tell her somewhat, and let
Somewhat also be hidden, Yet not upon thee, Odys-
seus, shall death come from thy wife, forvery prudent
and of an understanding heart is the daughter of
‘Agar, Homerica, 1894, Others tako χεῖραν ἀείρων   asindicat-
{ng geatare of supplication,     and render βάλλον ‘let thom
fall to the ground.” But this iv highly unsatisfactory.
                                                         “ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_438>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 447-476
Tearius, wise Penelope. Verily we left her a bride
newly wed, when we went to the war, and a boy was
at her breast, a babe, who now, I ween, sits in the
ranks ofmen, happy in that his dear father will be-
hold him when he comes, and he will geet his father
asis meet. But my wife did not let me sate my eyes
even with sightofmy ownson. Nay, ere that she slew
‘even me, her husband. And another thing will I tell
thee, and do thou lay it to heart: in secret and not
openly do thou bring thy ship to the shore of thy dear
native Ἰαπᾶ ; for no longer is there faith in women.
But, come, tell me this, and declare it truly, whether
haply ye hear of my son asyet alive in Orchomenus
st may be, or in sandy Pylos, or yet with Menelaus in
‘wide Sparta; for not yet has goodly Orestes perished
on the earth.”
   So he spoke, and I made answer and said: ‘Son
of Atreus, wherefore dost thou question me of this?
I know not at all whether he be alive or dead, and it
is an ill thing to speak words vain as wind.”
   “Thus we two stood and held sad converse with
one another, sorrowing and shedding big tears; and
there came up the spirit of Achilles, son of Peleus,
and those of Patroclus and of peerless Antilochus       and
of Aias, who in comeliness and form was the goodliest
of all the Danaans after the peerless son of Peleus.
‘And the spirit of the swift-footed son of Aeacus
recognized me, and weeping, spoke to me winged
   “Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of
many devices, rash man, what deed yet greater than
this wilt thou devise in thy heart? “How didst thou
dire to come down to Hades, where dwell the un-
heeding dead, the phantoms of men outworn.”?
      Ὁ Or, perhaps, “who have done with (life's) toils
                                                        419

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_440>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 477-503
    "£So he spoke, and I made answer and said:
  Achilles, son of Peleus, far the mightiest of the
 Achaeans, I came through need of Teiresias,if haply
he would ‘tell me some plan whereby I might reach
rugged Ithace,| For mt yet have I come near to
the land of Achaca, nor have I as yet set foot on my
own country, but am ever suffering woes; whereas
than thon, Achilles, no man aforetime was more
blessed nor shall ever be hereafter. For of old, when
thou wast alive, we Argives honoured thee even as
the gods, and now that thou art here, thou rulest
mightily among the dead. Wherefore grieve not at
all that thou art dead, Achilles.”
   So I spoke, and he straightway made answer and
said: ‘Nay, seck not to speak soothingly to me of
death, glorious Odysseus. I should choose, so I
might live on earth, to serve as the hireling of
another, of some portionless man whose livelihood
‘was but small, rather than to be lord over all the
dead that have perished. But come, tell me tidings
of my son, that lordly youth, whether or not he
followed to the war to be a leader. And tell
me of noble Peleus, if thou hast heard aught,
whether he still has honour among the host of
the Myrmidons, or whether men do him dishonour
throughout Hellas and Phthia, because old age binds
hhim hand and foot. For I'am not there to bear him
aid beneath the rays of the sun in such strength as
once was mine in wide Troy, when I slew the best
of the host in defence ofthe Argives. If but in such
strength 1 could come, were it but for an hour, to
my father's house, I would give many a one of those
who do him violence and keep him from his honour,
cause to rae my strength and my invincible hands.”
   * Some take drdpeupean‘attached to the na peck
                                                   431

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_442>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 504-532
      “So he spoke, and I made answer and said:
 ‘Verily of noble Peleus have I heard naught, butas
 touching thy dear son, Neoptolemus, I will tell thee
 all the trath, as thou biddest me. 1 it was, myself,
 who brought him from Scyros in my shapely, hollow
 ship to join the host of the well-greaved Achaeans.
 ‘And verily,asoften as we took counsel around the
 city ofTroy, he was ever the frst to speak, and made
 no miss of “ords; godlike Nestor and I’slone sur-
 passed him, But’ as often as we fought with the
 bronze on the Trojan plain, he would never remain
 behind in the throng or press of men, but would ever
 run forth far to the front, yielding to none in his
 might; and many men he stew in dread combat. All
 of them 1 could not tell or name, all the host that he
 slew in defence of the Argives; but what a warrior
 was that son of Telephus whom he slew with the
 sword, the        prince Eurypylus! Aye, and many of his
 comrades, the Ceteians, were slain about him, because
 of gifts a woman craved.) He verily was the come-
  jest man I saw, next to goodly Memnon. And again,
 when we, the best of the Argives, were about to go
down into the horse which Epeus made, and the
‘command of all was laid upon me, both to open and
to close the door of our stout-built ambush, then the
other leaders and counsellors of the Danaans would
wipe away tears from their eyes, and each man's
limbs shook beneath him, but never did my eyes see
his fair face grow pale at all, nor see him wiping tears
from his cheeks; but he earnestly besought me to
let him go forth from the horse, and kept handling
hhis sword-ilt and his spear heavy with bronze, and
   2Thereference isto the golden vine, given by Priam to
Antyoche, wile of Telephus, which gift'led her to send her
ton Borypylus tothe ald of the Trojans.
                                                       423

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_444>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XI. 533-360
  was eager to work harm to the Trojans. But after
  we had sacked the lofty city of Priam, he went
 ‘on board his ship with his share of the spoil and
 a goodly prize—all unscathed he was, neither
 smitten with the sharp spear nor wounded in close
 fight, as often befalls in war; for Ares rages con-
  fasedly.”
    “So I spoke, and the spirit of the sox of
 Aeacus departed with long strides over the ficld of
 asphodel, joyful in that I said that his son was pre-
 eminent.
    “And other spirits of those dead and gone stood
 sorrowing, and each asked of those dear to him.
 ‘Alone of them all the spirit of Aias, son of Telamon,
 stood apart, still full of wrath for the victory that ἢ
 ‘had won over him in the contest by the ships for the
 arms of Achilles, whose honoured mother had set
 them for a prize; and the judges were the sons of
 theTrojansand Pallas Athene, I would that I had
 never won in the contest for such a prize, over 50
 noble a head did the earth close because of those
‘arms, even over Aias, whoin comeliness and in deeds
ofwar was above all the other Danaans, next to the
peerless tonof   Peleus, ‘To him Ispoke with soothing
    “Alas, son of peerless Telamon, wast thou then
not even in death to forget thy wrath against me
because of those accursed arms? Surely the gods
set them to be a bane to the Argives: such a tower
of strength was lost to them in thee; and for thee
in death we Achaeans sorrow unceasingly, even as
for the life ofAchilles, son of Peleus. Yet'no other
is to blame but Zeus, who bore terrible hatred
against the host of Danaan spearmen, and brought
                                                   4:5

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_446>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 561-586
on thee thy doom. Nay, come hither, prince, that
thou mayest hear my word and my speech} and
subdue thy wrath and thy proud spirit
   So I spoke, but he answered me not a word, but
went his way to Erebus to join the other spirits
of those dead and gone. ‘Then would he never-
theless have spoken to me for all his wrath, or
T to him, but the heart in my breast was fain to
see the spirits of those others that are dead.
   “There then T sw Minos the glorious son of
Zeus,       golden sceptre in hand, giving judgment to
the dead from his seat, while Sheyτὰλ ἀρὰ stood
about the king through the wide-gated house of
Hades, and asked of him judgment.
   “And after him I marked huge Orion driving
together over the field of asphodel wild beasts
which himself had slain on the lonely hills, and
in his hands he held a club all of bronze, ever
unbroken,
   “And I saw Tityos, son of glorious Gaea, lying
on the ground. Over nine roods' he stretched,
and two vultures sat, one on either side, and tore
his liver, plunging their beaks into his bowels,
nor could he beat them off with his hands. For
he had offered violence to Leto, the glorious wife
of Zeus, as she went toward Pytho through Panopeus
with its lovely lawns.
   “Aye, and I saw Tantalus in violent torment,
standing in a pool, and the water came nigh unto
bis chin, He seemed as one athirst, but could
not take and drink; for as often as that old man
stooped down, eager to drink, so often would the
water be swallowed up and vanish away, and at
       2Renderings of πέλεθρα canonlybe tentative,
                                                   457

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_448>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 587-613
 his feet the black earth would appear, for some
 god made all dry. And trees, high and leafy, let
 stream their fruits above his head, pears, and pome-
    ranates, and apple trees with their bright. fruit,
 and sweet figs, and luxuriant olives, But as often
 ‘as that old man would reach out toward these,
 to clutch them with his hands, the wind would toss
 them to the shadowy clouds.
    ‘Aye, and I saw Sisyphus in violent torment,
 seeking to raise a monstrous stone with both ἢ
 hands.” Verily he would brace himself with hands
 and feet, and thrust the stone toward the crest
 of ahill, but as often as he was about to heave
 it over the top, the weight would turn it back,
 and then down again to the plain would come
 rolling the ruthless stone. But he would strain
 again and thrust it back, and the sweat flowed down
 from his limbs, and dust rose up from his head.
    © And after him I marked the mighty Heracles—
 his phantom ;for he himself among the immortal
 gods takes his joy in the feast, and has to wife
 Hebe, of the fair ankles, daughter of great Zeus
 ‘and of Here, of the golden sandals, About
 rose ἃ clamour from the’ dead, as of birds flying
 everywhere in terror; and he like dark night, with
 his bow bare and with arrow on the string, glared
about him terribly, like one in act to shoot. Awful
was the belt about his breast, a baldrie of gold,
whereon wondrous things were fashioned, bears and
‘wild boars, and lions with flashing eyes, and con-
fiicts, and’ battles, and murders, and slayings of
men. May he never have designed,’ or hereafter
  1 Again, asin tho similar pas age, iv. 684, I follow Agar
(Hemerca, p19)             Bo                            =
                                                       439

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_450>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ. 614-640
 design such another, even he who stored up in
 his craft the device of that belt. He in turn knew
 me when his eyes beheld me, and weeping spoke
 to me winged words:
      «Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus
 of many devices, ah, wretched man, dost thou, too,
 drag out an evil lot such as 1 once bore beneath
 the rays of the sun? I was the son of Zeus, son
 of Cronos, but I had woe beyond mensure; for to
 ‘a man far worse than I was I made subject, and
 hhe Iaid on me hard labours. Yea, he once’ sent
 me hither to fetch the hound of Hades, for he
 could devise for me no other task mightier than
 this, The hound I carried off and led forth from
 the house of Hades; and Hermes was my guide, and
 fishing-eyed Athene.”
      “So saying, he went his way again into the house
 of Hades, butIabode there steadfastly, in the hope
 that some other haply might still come forth of the
 warrior heroes who died in the days of old. And
 I should have seen yet others of the men of former
 time, whom I was fain to behold, even Theseus
and Peirithous, glorious children of the gods, but
‘ere that the myriad       tribes of the dead came
 thronging up with a wondrous cry, and pale fear
supon
 eized meme,from
              lestaogust  Persephone might send forth
                   out the house of Hades the head
 ofthe Gorgon, that awfal monster,
     “Straightway then I went to the ship and bade
 my comrades themselves to.embark, and to loose
 the stern cables. So they went on board quickly
 and sat down upon the benches. And the shij
 was borne down the stream Oceanus by the swell-
 ing flood, first with our rowing, and afterwards the
 wind was fair.
                                                   431

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_452>>>
BOOK      XII

     “Now after our ship had left the stream of the
 river Oceanus and had come to the wave of the
 broad sea, and the Aeaean isle, where is the dwell-
 ing of early Dawn and her’ dancing-lawns, and
 the risings of the sun, there on our coming we
 beached our ship on the sands, and ourselves went
 forth upon the shore of the sea, and’ there we
 fell asleep, and waited for the bright Dawn,
    “As soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-
 fingered, then I sent forth my comrades to the
 house of Ciree to fetch the body of the dead
 Elpenor. Straightway then we cut billets of wood
 amd gave him burial where the headland runs
 furthest out to sea, sorrowing and shedding big
 tears. But when the dead man was burned, and
 the armour of the dead, we heaped up ἃ mound
 td dragged on to it pillar, and on the top of
 the mound we planted his shapely oar.
    “We then were busied with these several tasks,
 howbeit Circe was not unaware of our coming forth
 from the house of Hades, but speedily she arrayed
 herself and came, and her handmaids brought with
 her bread and’ meat in abundance and flaming
 red wine. And the beautiful goddess stood in our
midst, andspoke among us, saying:
    “Rash gen, who have gone down alive to the
 house of Hades to mect death twice, while other
                                                 433
    νοις αν                                   P

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_454>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 23-51
‘men die but once. Nay, come, eat food andatdrink    the
wine here this whole day through; but
coming of Dawn ye shall set sail, and I will point
out the way and declare to you each thing, in
order that ye may not suffer pain and woes through
‘wretched ill-contriving either by sea or on land.’
    So she spoke, and our proud hearts consented.
So then all day long till set of sun we sat feasting
fon abundant flesh and sweet wine. But when
‘the sun set and darkness came on, they lay down
to rest beside the stern cables of the ship; but Circe
took me by the hand, and leading me and     apart from
my dear comrades, made me to sit, theherself        tale.
ay down close at hand and asked me all
‘And I told her all in due order. Then queenly
      ree spoke to me and said:
         ‘All these things have thus found an ἃend;
 but do thou hearken as I shall tell thee, theand god.
 shall himself bring it to thy mind. To whoso-    Sirens
 first. shalt thou come, who beguile all men draws
 ever comes to them. Whoso in ignorance
 near to them and hears the Sirens’ voice, he never- may
 more returns, thet his wife and little childrenbeguile
 stand at his side rejoicing, but the Sirens sit in a
 hhim with their clear-toned song, as they bones
 meadow, and about them is a great heap of skin
 ‘of mouldering men, and round the past bones the
 is shrivelling. But do thou row with sweet’ them, and
 ‘anoint the ears of thy comrades any of the wax,    rest
 ‘which thou hast kneaded, lest
                                               to listen,
 may hear, But if thou thyself hast ashipwill hand
 et them bind thee in the swift and let and           the
 foot upright in the step of the mast,
 ropes be made fast at the ends to the mast itself,
                                                      435

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_456>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIL 52-79
that with delight thou mayest listen to the voice
fof the two Sirens. And if thou shalt implore
‘and bid thy comrades to loose thee, “But      then let them
bind thee with yet more bonds. these, when                      thy
comrades shall have rowed past                        thereafter
 T shall not fully say on which side thy course is
 to lie, but do thou thyself ponder it in onmind,               the
 and {will tell thee of both ways. For them
 fone hand are beetling erags, and d against                   te;
 roars the great wave of dark-eyegods Amphitri      call     these.
 the Planctae      ?  do  the  blessed
 Thereby not even winged things may pass,father                  no,
 not the timorous doves that bear ambrosia away         to
 Zeus, but the smooth rock ever snatches                        one
 even of these, and the father sends hasin noanother               to
  make up the tale.        And   thereby                   ship    of
 men ever yet escaped that has come               thither, but
  the planks of ships and bodies of menandarethewhirled
  confusedly by the waves of the sea ship alone blasts           has
  of baneful fire. One seafarin         g
  passed thereby, that Argo famed’ the         of all, on her
 Yoyage from Agetes, and even her the wave                   would
  speedily have dashed there           against         great crags,
  IRE nektoher.Flere sent er through, for that JasonWas
  dear
     “Now on the other path are two toοἰ,the onebroadof
  which reaches with its sharp peak         s it. This never
  heaven, and ἃ dark cloud surround              surround that
  melts away, nor does clear sky ever       time. No mortal
  peak in summer or in harvest upon               the top, not
  ian could seale it or set handsfoot
  though he had twenty                    and feet; for the
   rock is smooth, as if it were polished. And in
   1ke, the wandering,” or, perhaps, the clashing, rocks.”
                                                                  437

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_458>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 80-108
the midst of the cliff is a dim cave,youtuned              to the
West, toward Erebus, even Odysseus  where            shall steer
-your hollow ship, glorious                   . Not even ἃ
Than of might could shoot an arrow from              the hollow
ship so astoreach into that vaulted voles      cave. Therein
 duels Sey, yelping terbly. Her whelp, tebutindeed
 bbut as the voice of a new-born would anyone shebe
 herself is an evil monster, nor                      it were ἃ
 glad at sight of hor, no, not though        has   twelve     feet,
 god that met her.          Verily    she
 fll misshapen and six necks, exceeding three                long,
 ἀνὰ on each one an awful ead, and therein        full of black
 rows of teeth, thick and close, and        is  hidden     in the
 Geath. Up to her         middle     she
  hollow cave, but she holds her head               out beyond
  the dread chasm, and fishes there, eagerly            searchin,
  the λαοὐrock for doiphine and                  τοὺἀρ and
  whatever greater beast she may haply               eateb, such
  ‘creatures as deep-moaningBy Amphitr      ite rears in mul-
  ‘tudes past counting.             her no sailors yet may
  boast that they have fled unscathead man,      in their ship,
  for with each head she carries        off             snatching
  hhim from the dark-prowed ship. note, Odysseus,
     «But the other clif, thou wilt thou couldst
  is lower—they are close to each other;
  even shoot an arrow across—         and on it is a great
  fig tree  with   rich foliage,  but    beneath this divine
       rybais sucks down the black water.she Thrice                 a
  day she belches it forth, and not      thrice           sucks it
  down terribly. Mayest thou one could         be there when
  the   sucks   it  down,   for  no                    save thee
   from ruin, no, not the Earth-shaker. Nay, draw
     2 Thewordis ἃ doubtfulone, Others render, dangling
   down.”
                                                                439

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_460>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 109-138
 very close to Seylla’s cliff, and drive thy ship past
 quickly ;for it is better far to mourn six comrades
 in thy ship than all together.”
     So she spoke, but I made answer and said:
 “Come, I pray thee, goddess, tell me this thing
 troly, if in any wise I might escape from fell
 Charybdis, and ward off that other, when she works
 harm to my comrades.”
    So I spoke, and the beautiful goddess answered
 and said: ‘Rash man, lo, now again thy heart is
 set on the deeds of war and on toil, Wilt thou
 not yield even to the immortal gods? She is not
 morial, but an immortal bane, dread, and dire,
 and fierce, and not to be fought with; there is no
 defence; to flee from her is bravest. For if thou
 tarriest to arm thyself by the cliff, I fear lest she
 may again dart forth and attack thee with as many
 heads and seize as many men as before. Nay, row
pastwith all thy might, and call upon Crataiis, the
 mother of Seylla, who bore her for a bane to mortals.
 Then will she keep her from darting forth again.
    And tho wilt come to the isle Thrinacia
 There in great numbers feed the kine of Helios
 and his       goodly flocks, seven herds of kine and as
 many fair flocks of sheep, and fifty in each. These
 bear noyoung, nor do they ever die, and goddesses
are their shepherds, fair-tressed nymphs, Phaethusa
‘and Lampetie, whom beautiful Neaera bore to
 Helios Hyperion. These their honoured mother,
when she had bome and reared them, sent to the
 isle Thrinacia to dwell afer, and keep the flocks
of their father and his sleek kine. If thou leavest
 these unharmed and heedest thy homeward way,
 verily ye may yet reach Ithaca, though in evil
                                                     at

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_462>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 139-164
plight, But if thou harmest them, then I foretel}
ruin for thy ship and for thy comrades, and even
if thou shalt thyself escape, late shalt thon come
hhome and in evil case, after losing all thy com-
rales
   “So she         spoke, and presently came golden-
throned Dawn. ‘then the beautiful goddess de.
parted up the island, but I went to the ship and
roused my comrades themselves to embark and to
loose the stern cables. So they went on board
straightway and sat down upon the benches, and
 iting well in order smote the grey sea with their
oars. And for our aid in the wake of our dark-
prowed ship a fair wind that filled the sail, a
goodly comrade, was sent by fair-tressed           Citce,
dread goddess of human specch. So when we had
straightway made fast all the tackling throughout
the ship we sat down, but the wind and the helms-
‘man guided the ship.
   “Then verily I spoke among my comrades,
grieved at heart: ‘Friends, since it is not right
that one or two alone should know the oracles
that Circe, the beautiful goddess, told me, there-
fore will I tell them, in order that knowing them
we nay either die or, shunning death and fate,
escape. First she bade us avoid the voice of the
wondrous    Sirens, and. their flowery meadow. Me
alone she bade to listen to their voice; bnt do
  e bind me with grievous bonds, that I may abide
Kost where T'am, upright in the step of the mast,
and let the ropes be made fast at the ends to
the mast itself; and if I implore and bid you to
loose me, then do ye tie me fast with yet more
bonds.”
                                                443

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_464>>>
THE ODYSSRY, XII. 165-189
     “Thus I rehearsed all these things and told them
 to my comrades. Meanwhile the well-built ship
speedily came to the isle of the two Sirens, for
a fair and gentle wind bore her on. Then pre~
sently the wind ceased and there was a windless
calm, and a god lulled the waves to sleep. But
my comrades rose up and furled the sail and
stowed it in the hollow ship, and thereafter sat
‘at the oars and made the water white with their
polished oars of fir. But I with my sharp sword
cut into small bits a great round cake of wax,
and kneaded it with my strong hands, and soon
the wax grew warm, forced by the strong pressure
and the rays of the lord Helios Hyperion.! ‘Then
T anointed with this the ears of all my comrades
in turn; and they bound me in the ship hand
and foot, upright in the step of the mast, and made
the ropes fast at the ends to the mast itself;
and themselves sitting down smote the grey sea
with their oars. But when we were as far distant
as a man can make himself heard when he shouts,
driving swiftly on our way, the Sirens failed not
to note the swift ship as it drew near, and they
raised their cloar-toned song:
     ““¢Come hither,asthou farest, renowned Odysseus,
great glory of the Achaeans; stay thy ship that thou
mayest listen     tothe voice of us two. For never yet
has any man rowed past this isle in his black ship
until he has heard the sweet voice from our lips.
Nay, he has joy of it, and_goes his way ἃ wiser man.
For we know all the toils that in wide Troy the
    Ὁ This rendering takes “treprov(Bne to be an equivalent
‘replay. ΤῈ it bo rogarded as a patronymic, this passage is
out of harmony with others,
                                                          445

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_466>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIL. 190-217
Argives and Trojans endured through the will of the
gods, and we know all things that come to pass upon
the fraitful earth.’
   So they spoke, sending forth their beautiful
voice, and iy heart was fain to listen, and I bade
my comrades loose me, nodding to them with my
brows; but they fell to their oars and rowed on.
And presently Perimedes and Eurylochus arose and
bound me with yot more bonds and drew them
tighter. But when they had rowed past the Sirens,
and we could no more hear their voice or their song,
then straightway my trusty comrades took away the
wax with which I had anointed their ears and loosed
me from my bonds.
   “But when we had left the island, I presently saw
smoke and a great billow, and heard a booming.
‘Then from the hands of my'men in their terror the
ears flew, and splashed one and all in the swirl, and
the ship stood still where it was, when they no longer
plied with their hands the tapering oars. But 1
went through the ship and cheered my men with
gentle words, coming up to each man in turn:
   “*Friends, hitherto we have been in no wise
ignorant of sorrow; surely this evil that besets us
now is no greater than when the Cyclops penned
us in his hollow cave by bratal strength yet even
thence we made our escape through my valour
and counsel and wit; these dangers, too, methinks
we shall some day remember. But now come, as I
bid, let us all obey. Do you keep your seats on the
benches and smite with your oars the deep surf of
the sea, in the hope that Zeus may grant us to
escape and avoid this death. And to thee, steers-
‘man, I give this command, and do thou lay it to
                                                   “1

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_468>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ]. 218-246
hheart, since thou wieldest the steering oar of the
hollow ship. From this smoke and surf keep the
ship well away and hug the cliff, lest, ere thou know
if, the ship swerve off to the other side and thou
cast us into destruction.”
   “So I spoke, and they quickly hearkened to my
words. But of Scylla I'went not on to speak, a
careless bane, lest haply my comrades, seized with
fear, should cease from rowing and huddle together
in the hold. Then verily I forgot the hard com-
mand of Circe, whereas she bade me in no wise
to arm myself; but when I had pat on my glorious
armour and grasped in my hand two long spears,
I went to the foredeck of the ship, whence I
deemed that Seylla of the rock would first be seef,
who was to bring ruin upon my comrades. But
nowhere could I descry her, and my eyes grew
weary as I gazed everywhere toward the misty
rock.
   “We then sailed on up the narrow strait with
wailing. For on one side lay Seylla and on the other
divine Charybdis terribly sucked down the salt water
of the sea,” Verily whenever she belched it forth,
ike a cauldron on a great fire she would seethe and
‘bubble in utter turmoil, and high over head the
spray would fall on the tops of both the clifs. But
κα often as she sucked down the salt water of the
sea, within she could all be seen in utter turmoil, and
round about the rock roared terribly, while beneath
the earth appeared black with sand and pale fear
seized my men. Sowe looked toward her and feared
destruction ; but meanwhile Seylla seized from out
the hollow ship six of my comrades who were the
best in strength and in might, Turning my eyes to
                                                    449

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_470>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ]. 247-274
 the swift ship and to the company of my men,t even
 then I noted above me their feet and hands as they
 were raised aloft, ΤῸ me they cried aloud, calling
 upon me by name for that last time in anguish of
 heart, And as a fisher on a jutting rock, when he
castsin his baitsasa snare to the little fishes, with
 his long pole lets down into the sea the hom of an
 ox of the steading? and then as he catches a fish
 ings it writhing ashore, even so were they drawn
        ing up towards the cliff, Then at her doors
       devoured them shrieking and stretching out
 theirhands toward me in their awful death-stroggle.
 Most piteous did mine eyes behold that thing ofall,
 that I bore while I explored the paths of the sea.
    “Now when we had escaped the rocks, and dread
 Charybdis and Seylla, presently then we came to the
   oodly island of the god, where were the fair kine,
 Groad of brow, and the many goodly flocks of Helios
 Hyperion, Then while I was still out at sea in my
 black ship, 1 heard the lowing of the cattle that
 were being stalled and the bleating of the sheep,
 and upon my mind fell the words of the blind seer,
 ‘Theban Teivesias, and of Aeaean Circe, who v
 straitly charged me to shun the island of Helios,
 who gives joy to mortals. Then verilyIspoke among
 my comrades, grieved at heart:
    “Hear my words, comrades, for all _your evil
 plight, that I may tell you the oracles of Teiresias
sand of Aeacan Circe, who very straitly charged me
 to shun the island οἵ Helios, who gives joy to
                           cere
rms      islets              cmeena ey
                                    xixarea
                                        38 f)- 11
tifa bait(oo
           Bakina in Journ, Philo.
                                          ΑΙ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_472>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 275-302
 mortals; for there, she said, was our most terrible
 ane. Nay, row the black ship out past the island.
     “So I spoke, but their spirit was broken within
 them, and straightway Eurylochus answered me with
 hateful words:
     «Hardy art thou, Odysseus; thon hast strength
 beyond that of other men and thy limbs never grow
 weary. Verily thou art wholly wrought. of iron,
 seeing that thou sulferest not thy comrades, worn
 ‘out with toll and drowsiness, to set foot on shore,
 where on this sca-girt isle we might once more make
 ready a savoury supper; but thou biddest us even as
 wwe are to wander on through the swift night, driven
 away from the island over the misty deep. It is
 from the night that fierce winds are born, wreckers
 of ships. How could one escape utter destruction,
 if haply there should suddenly come a blast of the
South Wind or the blustering West Wind, which
oftenest wreck ships in despite of the sovereign
gods? Nay, verily for this time let us yield to black
 night and inake ready our supper, remaining by the
swift ship, and in the morning we will go aboard,
and put out into the broad sea.
    “So spoke Eurylochus, and the rest of my com-
rades gave assent, Then verily I knew that some
god was scsredly devising ill, and T spoke and
addressed him with winged words:
    “«Burylochus, verily ye constrain me, who stand
alone. But come now, do ye all swear to me a
mighty oath,   totheendthat,ifwe haply findaherdof
kine or a great flock of sheep, no man may slay either
cow or sheep in the blind folly of his mind; but
be content to eat the food which immortal Circe
gave.’
                                                   453

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_474>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 303-329
    “So I spoke, and they straightway swore that
 they would not, even as I bade them. But whenwe
 they had sworn and made an end of the oath,
 moored our well-built ship in the hollow harbour
 near a spring of sweet water, and my comrades          went
 forth from the ship and skilfully made ready their
 supper. But when they had put from them the
 desire of food and drink, then they fell to weeping,
 as they remembered their dear comrades whom Seylla
 had snatched from out the hollow ship and devouredBut;
 and sweet sleep came upon them as they wept. the
 when it was the third watch of the night, andcloud-
stars had tured their course, Zeus,              the
 iatherer, roused against us a fierce wind with a won-
 Grous tempest, and hid with clouds the land and          sea
 alike, and night rushed down from        heaven. And as
 ‘son as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,cave,      we
 dragged our ship, and made her fast in a hollow of the
 where were the fair dancing-floors and seats spoke
 nymphs. ‘Then I called my men together and
 among them:
      ‘Friends, in our swift ship is meat and drink;
 let us therefore keep our hands the   from those kine lest
 ‘we come to harm, for these are cowswhoandoversees   goodly
 sheep    of  a dread  god, even   of Helios,
  all things and overhears all things.”
      So I spoke, and their proud hearts consented.
  Then for a full month the South Wind blew unceas-
  ingly, nor did any other wind arise except the East
  and the South.                                         wine
      “Now so long as my men had grain and red were
  they kept their hands from the kine, all     for they
  eager to save their lives. But when the stores,
     1 Some prefer to render “though pining for livelihood” 5
  Dut the meaning seems fixed by xaiv. 69h                455

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_476>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΙ]. 330-357
had been consumed from out the ship, and now they
must needs roam about in search of game, fishes,
and fowl, and whatever might come to their hands
—fishing’with bent hooks, for hunger pinched their
bellies—then I went apart up the island that I might
pray to the gods in the hope that one of them might
show me a way to go. And when, as I went through
thé island, T had got away from my comrades, Γ
‘washed my hands in a place where there was shelter
from the wind, and prayed to all the gods that hold
Olympus; but they shed sweet sleep upon my eye-
ids, And meanwhile Kurylochus began to give evil
‘counsel to my comrades:
   “Hear my words, comrades, for all your evil
plight. AN forms of death are hateful to wretched
mortals, but to die of hunger, and so meet one's
doom, is the most pitiful. Nay, come, let us drive
off the best of the kine of Helios and offer sacrifice
to the immortals who hold broad heaven, And if
we ever reach Ithaca, our native land, we will
straightway build a rich temple to Helios Hyperion
‘and put therein many goodly offerings. And if haply,
he be wroth at all because of his straight-horned
kine, and be minded to destroy our ship, and the
other gods consent, rather would I lose my life once
for all with ἃ gulp at the wave, than pine slowly
away in a desert isle.”
   “So spoke Eurylochus, and the rest of my com-
rades gave assent. Straightway they drove off the
best of the kine of Helios from near at hand, for
not far from the dark-prowed ship were grazing the
fair, sleek kine, broad of brow. Around these, then,
they stood and made prayer to the gods, plucking
the tender leaves from off a high-erested oak ;} for
  1 The green leaves were to verve aa δsubstitute for the
barleygraineordinarily used ἴαsacriGew               ie

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_478>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 358-385
they had no white barley on board the well-benched
ship. Now when they had prayed and had cut         cut the
throats of the kine and flayed them, they              out
the thigh-pieces and covered them witha‘Theydouble     had
layer of fat and laid raw flesh upon them,
τὸ wine to pour over the blazing sacrifice, but they
made libations with water, and roasted all the entrails
over the fire. Now when the thighs were wholly
Dumed and they had tasted the inner parts, they
cat up the rest and spitted it,Then it was that
sweet sleep fled from my eyelids, and 1 went But        my
‘way to the swift ship and the shore of the sea. ship,
 when,asI went, 1 drew near to the curved
 then verily the hot savour of the fat was wafted
 about me, and I groaned and cried aloud to the
 immortal gods:
    “cFather Zeus and ye other blessed gods that are    me
 for ever, verily it was for my ruin that ye lulled
 in pitiless sleep, while my comrades remaining behind
 have contrived a monstrous deed.’
     “Swiflly then to Helios Hyperion came Lampetie
 of the long robes, bearing tidings that we hadthe slainim-
 hhis kine;and straightway he spoke among
 mortals, wroth at heart:
     ‘Father Zeus and ye other blessedthe gods     that are
 for ever, take vengeance now have   on       comrades of
 Odysseus, son of Laertes, who            insolently slain
 my kine, in which Iever took delight,I when         Iwent
 toward the starry heaven and when            tured back
 ‘again to earth from heaven. If theydown do not pay me
 fit atonement for the kine I will go            to Hades
 and shine among the dead.’
     “Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered      him and
 said: ‘Helios,     do thou  verily shine on   among    the
                                                        459

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_480>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 386-413
immortals and among mortal men upon the earth,
the giver of grain. “As for these men I will soon
smite their swift ship with my bright thunder-bolt,
    “This I heard from fair-haired Calypso, and she said
 Mat she herelf had heard ffom the messenger
   lermes.
    “But when Ihad come down to the ship and to
the sea Iupbraided my men, coming up to each in
 turn, but we could find no remedy—the kine were
already dead. For my men, then, the gods straight-
way shewed forth portents. The hides crawled, the
fiesh, both roast and raw, bellowed upon the spits,
and there was a lowing as of kine.
    “For six days, then, my trusty comrades feasted
on the best of the kine of Helios which they hed
driven off. But when Zeus, the son of Cronos,
brought upon us the seventh day, then the wind
ceased to blow tempestuonsly, and we straightway
went on board, and put out into the broad sea
when we bad set up the mast and hoisted the
white sail
   «But when we had left that island and no other
land appeared, but only sky and sea, then verily the
son of Cronos set a black cloud above the hollow
ship, and the sea grew dark beneath it. She ran on
for no long time, for straightway came the shrieking
West: Wind, blowing with a furious tempest, and the
blast of the wind snapped both the forestays of the
mast, so that the mast fell backward and all its
tackling was strewn in the bilge. On the stern of
theshipthe mast struck the head of the pilot and
rushed all the bones of his skull tovether, and like
                                                    461

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_482>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 414-444
    diver he fell from the deck and his proud spirit
left his bones. Therewith Zeus thundered and hurled
his bolt upon the ship, and she quivered from stem
to stem, smitten by the bolt of Zeus, and was filled
with sulphurous smoke, and my comrades fell from
out the ship. Like sea-crows they were borne on
the waves about the black ship, and the god took
from, them ther rearing, But 1 Kept pacingop
and down the ship till the surge tore the sides from
the keel, and the wave bore her on dismantled and
snapped the mast off at the keel; but over the mast
had been flung the back-stay fashioned of ox-hide
with this T lashed the two together, both keel and
mast, and sitting on these was bome by the direful
winds.
    “Then verily the West Wind ceased to blow tem-
pestuously, and swiftly the South Wind came,bringing
sorrow to my heart, that I might traverse again the
way to baneful Charybdis. All night long was T
dome, and at the rising of the sun I came to the
cliff of Seylla and to dread Charybdis. She verily
sucked down the salt water of the sea, but I, spring-
ing up to the tall ig-tree, laid hold of it, and clung
to it like a bat. Yet I could in no wise plant my
feet firmly or climb upon the tree, for its roots spread
far below and its branches hung out of reach above,
long and great, and overshadowed Charybdis. There
T clung steadfastly until she should vomit forth mast
‘and keel again, and to my joy they came at length.
At the hour when a man rises from the assembly for
hhis supper, one that decides the many quarrels of
young men that seck judgment, even at that hour
Those spars appeared from out Charybdis. And Ilet
                                                 463

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_484>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 442-453,
go hands and feet from above and plunged down
into the waters out beyond the long spars, and
sitting on these I rowed onward with my hands.
But as for Scylla, the father of gods and men did
not suifer her again to catch sight of me, else should
I never have escaped utter destruction.
   “Thence for nine days was I borne, and on the
tenth night the godsbrought me to Ogygia, where
the aeressed Culypo. dwell read fetes οἱ
hhuman speech, who gave me weleome and tendance.
But why should I tell thee this tale? For ἐξ was
but yesterday that I told it in thy hall to thyself and
tothy noble wife, Tt ian iksome thing, meseems,
   tellagein a plain-told tale,’




                                                   465,

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_486>>>
THE      LOEB CLASSICAL
                  LIBRARY

      VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED
                   TATIN AUTHORS
AMMIANUS MARCELLINUS, J.C, alts 9 Vol
  (Wale. and I, 2d Παρ revi
ASULEIES" “TAB. COLBES” ass caretawon-
  PHOSES),
  lee.        W. Adlington (1800). "Revised by 8. Gaae-
        (δὰ inp)
sty Abc
si   aubugnine,
AUSONIUS.             SiteerWhite.
              HLG.livelya     Leien’ΚαὶVolsτῇ τς ὕες.
BEDE, J. King. 2'Vol.
BORTHIUS:\
  PHILOSOPHIAE,THACTSRevi.  ἀκ DE     _CONSOLATIONE
                                 F. Stowart   and EK,
cABSAR. CHAE WARS, A, 6. Peskett (4th Imp)
CAESAR:  GALLIC WAIL
CATO ἀκ VARRO;           J, EdwardsHB.
                DE RE RUSTICA.       (010Ash
                                          npa

 Vosgate,   av      We Cornish: TIBULLUS.
                   PERVIGILIUM     VENEIUS    J.B,
                                              J: W:
 Maskell:
CHLSUS:      (Δ    2p)
           DEMEBICINA, W. 6. Spenoe 9 Vor.
  Val.
ERG     I
 ‘and Ἡ, Μ.TUPUS
            Hubbell.” ie
                       (ndORATOR.
                             Zmp,) 6. L,Hendrictaon
                            ἢ
                                                  ."

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_487>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
ici         DE BATO: PARADOXA STOICORUM
  BE PARITTIONE ORATOWLIA. Ti Rackham, (With
  De Oratore, Vol. ΠῚ
ciceRg "Be HINIBUS. τὰν Rackham, (Grd Imp.
   vie pe NaTURA DEORUM avo ACADEMICA,
CiGEHG?
CICERO:DE
SIERO!     "Die OPFICUS, WaligrMile,
               Okatonel       NE We "Salon"(44 Zp) and
οὐκ
  fenπον
      Ws   DE REPUBLICA
         Keyes    Gnd)     axo DE LEGIBUS. Clin
cen.               ENECTUTE, DE AMICITIA, DE
CICERO:
  ‘SULLA, INPRO CATILINAN,
                 FEACCO. LouisPRO B. ΜΌΝΑ,
                                     Lord, (nd pro
  DIVINATIONE, W. A. Falooner, (4th Jp.)
                                                 Zp.
cIGERS? LETTERS τὸ ATTICUS, Ε. 0. Winsted
  Vols.
  ἐν  Sra ἡ (Vol. Ie th lip Vol ls Sra tmp. and Vol
cigs.’
 ‘Williams.
              Ἰωγταποol}τὸ μὶο FRIENDS. W. Glynn
cidunds Pan apo ΝΣὅρα ker ee
CICERO: PRO ARGHIA, POST “Rel a DE
  DOMO, DE HARUSPIGUM RESPONSIS, 'PRO
  PLANCIO. Ν,H. Watts. @nd Imp.)
CICERO:     PRO CAECINA,
  ‘PRO CLUENTIO,                ‘PRO "ERGR
                         PRO RABIRIO.          MANILIA,
                                          Η. Grose lodge,
   nd Tp)
CICERO”        PRO     MILONE, INPRO PISONEM,        PRO
  SCAUKO,      PRO
  TUMO, DEIOTARO..N.   NONTEIO,
           PRO MARCELLO,                 RABINIG
                                   PRO LIGARIO, PO   POS
  REGE                       H. Watts.
CICERO:
  PRO      PRO QUINCHIO.
        ,ROSCIO,     COMOEBO,  PRO CONTILA
                                     ROSCIO AMERINO,
                                               ΠΟΙΌΝ:
  ΤῊΝ  Freese,    (2nd  diy
cigs FUSCULAN DispUTATIONS. J. King
cifHiaman oxatioNs, tL 6, Cue
οἰCOLUMBLLA:
    δον ScDEpaar     ae
             RE RUSTICA.” H. B.Ash, 9 Vols,
  Vol. 1, Books I-IV.

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_488>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
CURTIUS, Q.: HISTORY OF ALEXANDER. J.C.
  ole, 9 Vols, Vol.I.
FLORUS. |E.& Force: and CORNELIUS NEPOS.
FRONTINUS:
  C.B, Bennett andSTRATAGEMS
                      M. 8. McElwain, syn AQUEDUCTS.
FRONTO; CORRESFONDENCE. Ὁ,R.Haines. 9 Vols,
GELLTUS. J.C, Rolfe. 8 Vols. (Vol. ἵν
HORACE: ODES ἀχὸ EPODES, Ὁ,
  Top reviSATIRES,
HORACE,"       ved.)         EPISTLES, ARS POETICA.
  HOU Eelecloughs (6th        Je ena)
       Mies SELECT’                  ὅδ Ἂς Wright
                                               (GisImp.)
Livy, 0" foster Ge Moore               renΝΣ ‘andA.
  Schlesinger, 18 Vox” Vol I-VI, 1X iL (Vol. ας
EUCAN.fnreVole
  fd       '5.D.Dut  τὴτς,Gndand Imp:
                                  1X. fd Ip. rete)
EtcRenOS. Wik ἦνRowe” uk ας resid
MARTIAL. “W. ὁ A.Ker. 2 Vols. (Vol. I. dehImp.,
  Vol. If. Sra Inp. revieed.)
MINOR’ LATIN’ POETS: from Possinivs Sraus_to
  Romuus Nocaraxes, including Gaarsios, Cacroasts
  Steonus, Nuwmstaxvs, Avia, with “Aetna,” Phoents”
  fand other poems. J.Wight Duif and Arnold M. Daft
   ὅκα In“ile ant OF LOVE win OTHER POEMS.
οὔθ.
  LEE Mosley.
OVID:    FAST, (nd
                “SirImp.) G,Fraze.
                   James
OVID: HEROIDES ssp AMORES.” Grant Showerman,
OVID,πο
     HeTAMORDHOSES,
              VoL A τον   Ἢ J. Mile, 2 Voln
          Mix Was Bx PONTO. Αι ανWhee,
  aOR cet stu Atos
        ee ae βω
         a
 UL μὰ Imp.)

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_489>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
 PLINY: NATURAL HISTORY. H. Rackham and
   W.H.S.Jones. H.10 8.
 PROPERTUS.          Vols.
                       Butler.Vols.(δὴ L-1V.Zmp.)(Val.
                                                   1.2ndTp.)
  UINTILIAN. HE. Butler. 4 Vols.” (2ndZmp.)
 REMAINS OF OLD LATIN. E. H. Warmingion. 4
   Vols. Vol 1. (nnius andCaeetlius), Vol. I (Livius,
  Nacriys Pacavias, Accu, Vol. Ti, (Cuca, Laws
  ofthe XII Tables).           aN ehaie Inseriptions)
 SALLUST, J. C-RRolfa” (2ndImp.reviead)
 SCRIPTORES’ HISTORIAE AUGUSTAE. D. Magis,
   ἄνοια, (Vol.
 SENECA:            12ndImp.revised) _Q/. PETRONIUS.
                  AFOCOLOGYNTOSIS,
 SENECA; BPISTULAE MORALES. ft Μ. ὕπνος
   δ οὶ. (Vol 1. ϑγά dp, Vol Π ad 1 Sd np,
 SENEER, MORAL ESSAYS. J. W. Basore 3 Vols
    (Vol. II. 2nd
 SENECA:           Zip. revised.) Miler, 2Volx (νοι
                TRACDIES,"P.J.
   Srd ἤπερ. Vol.POEMSANBLEPIERS.
sibONits,         POΤΠ. 8nd J                    W.B. Anderson
   2 Vols. Vol.I
 SILIUSITALICUS,
 STATUS,” 3.11, Μοῖῖογ,  J,D.Duf,2 Ve  2Volx (VoLIL 2ndmp)
 SUBTONIUS,         “J.C. Tale.” 2 Vols. (Vol. 1. δὰ Imp
   Vol, ΤΙ. 5¢h Jmp.)
‘TAGETUS:
  COLA       sw DIALOGUS,
                  GERMANIA.”     Sir Mauris
                                      Wm, Peterson
                                             Hatton,  : and(thAGRI-
                                                                 nn)
TACITUS:         HISTORIES      ἀκ     ANNALS,
  ‘andJ. Jackson, 4 Vols. “(VolsI.andIf.8nd Imp.)    ὃ,     IE  Moore
TRRENGE, John Sargeant. 3 Vola (Vol aaim,
‘TERTULLIAN’          APOLOGIAFELIX.
  Ἵ; Ἐ Glover: MINUCIUS               avy DE G.SPECTACULIS,
                                                  Hl. Rendall,
YALERIOS         FLACCUS      ΤῊ,
VARRO:DE LINGUA LATINA. "RG Καὶ,     Mone.    (Gnd   fn reisd.)
   nd Jim                                                      "Voi,
VEELAIUS         paTeRcULUS
  ‘AUGUSIL. FW. Shipley.            ayo   RES   GESTAR           DIVE
VIRGIL, ΤΣ       ας Fatclough” 9 Vols (VoL. 100 Jn.
  ok     dl
VITRUVIUS: DEδὰ    de.       aie)
                      ARGHITECTU       RA. F, Granger. 9 Vols
  (Vol 1 2ndZp.)
                                 4

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_490>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY

                      CREEK AUTHORS
ACHILLES TATIUS. 8. Gaseles.
AENEAS ‘TACTICUS, ASCLEPIODOTUS ἀκ ONA-
  SANDER. TheIllinois        GreekClub.
AESCHINES. °C. D. Adame.
AKSCHYLUS,
  Vol,            Hi. Weir Smyth. @ Vols. (Vol.
                                              5thImp.
        ΤΠ.é¢hfinp.)
APOLLODORUS. SirJamesG, Frazer. 9 Vols, (2ndImp.)
APOLLONIUS RHODIUS. RG. Seaton, (ich Imp.)
‘TUE APOSTOLIC FATHERS. Kirsopp Lake. 2 Vols
    "οἱ. I.th κι. Vol. 1, διὰ Imp.)
APPIAN'S ROMAN HISTORY. "Hlorace White. 4 Vols.
    ol, ΤSrd_Imp. Vols. I TIT, and LV. 2nd Imp.)
ARATUS. “of CALLIMACHUS.
ARISTOPHANES. ‘Benjamin Bickley Rogers. $ Vola
         np.) Verse trans.
ANUSTOTLE: “ART OF RHETORIC. J. H. Freese.
 (Ged Pr ATHENIAN CONSTITUTION, EUDE-
AMSOiEk,
 (ond Imp.)
            5,VIRTUES aso VICES. Ἡ, Racktian,
ARISTOTLE: GENERATION OF ANIMALS. A. L.
  Peek.
ARISTOTLE:        METAPHYSICS. H. Tredenick. 9 Vol.
 {end   Jone)
AMISTOLE:          MINOR      WORKS.        W. 8. Het. OvOx
  Corovas,      Ox
  Pras, OxOx ManvsixovsTuiwos  ‘Heano,     Puvsooxouics,
                                 Tivos, Srrtamzoxa
                                          Haan, δίρακλνιοις
 Paonasss,         lnommsrane   Lanes,
 forWiss, Ox Mutou, Xexoritax, ao Goneiss.         ao Nass
AWISTOTLE: NICOMACHEAN ETHICS, IL. Tack-
           "ἢ,ErIpOXCONOMICA
                     raieed)
               Armstrong. (Wiuh axpMetaphysics,
                                            MAGNA Vol.MORA-LL)
ARSVGR.
  (ond Jp.
           oN τὴνMEAVENS. W.K.C.Guttsie
AMSOILE:
 ‘ON BREATH. ON W.S.
                 THe Hett.
                     SOUL, “(2nd
                            PARVAimp. NATURALIA,
                                      revised.)
                        δ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_491>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
ARISTOTLE; ORGANON. H. P. Cooke and H. Tre-
   dennick. 8 Vols. Vol.
ARISTOTLE: PARTS OF ANIMALS. A. L. Peck:
   MOTION
  EK.  5. Forster.ΑΝῸ(2ndPROGRESSION.
                          παρ.)              ΟΡ “ANIMALS.
ARISTORLES PHYSICS” Rey, P, Wieksteed             andδ,M,
     ‘ornford.   9 Vols,   (Vol.
ΑΙ λό PORIICSwoLONGINUS, Want    Il 2ndimp.)
                     EMBTIUUS ΟΝ STYLE, W. hye
   Heber” (athtmp, erie
ARISTOTLE: POLITICS. ""H,Rackham. nd Imp.)
ARISTOTLE: PROBLEMS, W.S. δὶς 2 Vols,
                     RWETORICA AD ALEXANDRUM,
   Ἧς Rackham. (With Problems, Vol. 11)
ATUUAN: HISTORY            OF ALEXANDER avo INDICA,
  Rev. Ἐς iiffe Robson, 2 Vols,
ATHENAKUS: _DELPNOSOPHISTAE, ©. B. Gullek.
  7 Vols. (Vols, Y. and VI, 9ndImp.)
ST, BASIL: LETTERS. Ἀ 7 Delerrarl. 4 Vols,
CALUIMAGHUS any “LYCOPHRON. A.W. Male:
  ‘ARATUS. Ὁ.RuMalt
CLEMENT  ionoF "ALEXANDRIA. Rev.G. W. Butterworth.
cottUFfils, oyorPIAN.
 DEMOSTHENES!
    EEGAHONE.        ὁ. DEΑ: Vines
                                CORONAend   sx»Ἧς DEVinoFALSA
                                           οἱ                “Gnd
     Ip   evi)
 DEMOSTHENES         .MEIDIAS, ARISIOGEITON.
                                     ANDROTION, ARISTO-
    CRATES,
    Vin        TIMOCRATES,                                 Jr 1
DEMOSTHENES:
   MINOK     ORATIONS:  OLYNTHIACS,
                              L-RVEk    ato PHILIPPICS
                                              XX       He    axo
                                                            πος,
DEMOSIHENES:
   NEATKAM.        ACT  PRIVATE.
                         Murray,       ORATIONS
                                     8Vaie    (VoL      as np)IS
                                                      I-2nd
DIgGASSIUS, OMAN Herons Ca. γαῖ
υἱῷ‘Cahoon,
        ΟὐΥ̓ΒΟΒΊΟΜ,
             Vol ama
                  iL. J.W,  "F Vols.
                                Cahoon Vote
                                         and 1.1. and
                                                  Lam11, οἰκεῖν;
                                                           J. W.
  Vol.
DIgBORUS SIULUS'E.       Grosbys    πὶ Olathe, 18 νοις,
DIOGENES         Welded         en)
  Tend απ, Vo. LARTER    θεὰZp)  KP, μονα, 2 Vola (vol
                                 ὃ

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_492>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
DIONYSIUS OF HALICARNASSUS: ROMAN ANTI-
  QUITIES, ‘Spelpas's translation revised by Cary
  Vols, Vols
ἘΡΙΟΤΕΤΌΒ, “W.A.Oléfather. @ Vols. (Vol. I. 2nd
EURIPIDES.
  th   Imp Vols A.TUL8.and LV.Way, Sth4 Vols.
                                         mp.)    (Vols
                                                  Vers   1. and I
                                                        trans:
BUSEBTts.
  Take  and   ECCLESIASTICAL
             σ᾽   Β   ΤᾺ  Oulton,         9 TilSTORY.
                                             Vols,   (Vol.  “Kiropp
                                                             Ik Sed
  Imp.
GALEN: ON THE NATURAL FACULTIES. A. J.
  Brock, (Sra Jn)
THE GREEK ANTHOLOGY. W. R, Paton. 5 Vola
  (VL 4h Tp. Volit Sed mp, Vols Ht. and 1;
THE GREEK BUCOLIC POETS (ΓΗΒΟΟΠΙΤΌΒ,
  BION, MOSCHUS). “J. M, Edmonds. (δὰ Imp.
CREBud)ktzcy aNp TAMBUS won se ANACRE-
  ONTEA. J. M. Edmonds, 2 Vols.” (Vol. 1. Sud
 np.) MATHEMATICAL WORKS.
GAEBK                                              Ivor Thomas.
 φ γον,
HERODES, Of. THEOPHRASTUS:             CHARACTERS,
HERODOTUS:        τὰς Ὁ, Gatley.
  ‘rd Jmp., Vol. 1V:2nd Imp.     4 Vo.   (Vols ||,
HESIOD vo THE HOMEMLC HYMNS. HG. Brelya
  ‘CLEITUS. W.H.S,Jonesand E.T.Withington. 4 Vols,
  (ondfm ILIAD, AT Murray. 2 Vols. (6thImp)
HOMER?
HOMER: ODYSSEY. A/T. Murray. 2 Vols. (6thImp,
ISAEUS,
ISOCKATES.I.S, Forster, Norlin
              “George       “(ndImp.)
                                  an Laue Van Hook,
sf Soin, DAMASCENE: BARLAAM AND, IOA-
 SAPH. Rev.             ‘Woodward and Harold Mattingly.
  (oud Top,seit)Ἦ
SOSEPHUS,
  9 Vols VolsἩ,
              L-Vit.St. J. (Vol
                            Thackeray
                                Vaud and
                                      imp,Ralph Marcus
SULTAN. Wines     CaveWeight” Sole?(ols τι nat
  2nd Imp.)
                              1

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_493>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
 LONGUS: DAPHNIS ἀκ CHLOE. ‘Thornley's Trane
   lation reisedΘὰ
   S.Gaselee.          byJ.JpM, Kdmondsy axp PAICHIENIUS.
 LUCIAN,
   I. end   Il.  “A.M.ἑνHarmon, 8Vols, Vols.L-V. (Vols
                 Sea
 LYCOPARON,
 LYRA GRAECA. δ “J.CALLIMACHUS.   M. Edmonds. "8 Vols. (Vol. 1.
  ‘Srd
   Sed   Tmp.,
        Imp.     Vol.
                revised)  i. Sad   Ba.reviedandenlarged, Voleitl,
 LYSIAB.” WIM.
NANTON                 W.   Ὁ. Lamb,
                                 Wades  (2nd“PRODEMY:
                                                  fy                        TETRA.
   ‘BIBLOS.         Ρ    K.Kobbing
MARCUS AURELIUS, CLR.Haines. (SrZmp.reviead.)
MENANDER.
MINOR        AVTIC       ¥-G.   Allison. 2 (2nd
                          ORATONS.              Vols.Imp.Volresiued) ANTE
   PHON, ANDOCIDES.
NONNOS:              DIONYSIACA.     KJ,“W.Maldment,
                                                H. D. Htouse, 8 Vols
    Vol.  I.     2nd    J
OBPLAN,COLLUIHUs,7RYPHIODORUS.                                         A,  W. “A.Ma
PAPYRE
   Mont           NON-LITERAY                  SELECTIONS,
   TIONS.and Vol.
PARTHENIUS,
                  C.C,1Rdgar.
                           Pos 2HANES  Vols, LITERARY
                                     Dba       sup     Page. (end
                                                               C H L O E .
                                                                            SELEC:
                                                                            ἰῇ
PAUBANIAS: DiGRIPTION                          OFORERCE, νυ.5,
   ones.
   tony.      6  Vols,
                    (ae   and   Companion
                                Τς
                                 ‘and  Ill,     Vol.Zp)arrangedby
                                              2nd                            το" It.
   oHLO.  inhaler vot ie,γι          ῚFIX)TeV. BKHHe Colson.
                                                          Colson and        (Vol: Rev,
PHILOSIRATUS:
   TYANA, THC Conybeare.     ‘THE LIFE9 Vols   OF APOLLONIUS
                                                         (Vol      leνὰimps,        OF
         TL Sad inp.) IMAGINES; CALLISTRATUS:
PHILOSTRATUS:
PHILOSTRATUS               . Ἂς Paltanks,
                           iso          EUNAPLUS:      LIVES OF THE
   SOPHISTS.
PINDAR. Sir J.          ine      Cove   Wig.               vised)
PLATO:
  ἸῊΚ        CHARMIDES             ALCIBIADES           HibPARcHtOs,
   W.R. LOVERS,
           M. Lamb THEAGES, MINOS so EPINOMIS,
PLATO:
  BIPPIAS,‘CRAIYLUS,
                   LESSER HIPPIAS.  PARMBNIDES,    Η, Ν᾽ "Fowler.  GREATER        (Srd
 Top.)                                i

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_494>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
PLATO: EUTHYPHRO, APOLOGY, CRITO, PHAR:
  BO, PHAEDRUS.
PLATO:   A       HN. Fowler.
                tank      at(6th
                             MENG,mp) BUTHY,

  Kiam, (ohletretoed)
HAG. i eet            ‘nd timp.) ieic 2 Vols, (Vol. 1.
                                TIEEBUS. 1. N. Fowlers
PEATO, THEAETENCS aSwSOMUST,   (ied     Timp.) τιν, Power
  (ard Imp.)
TLATO: TIMAPUS, CRITIAS, CLITOPHO, MENUXE-
  NUS, EPISTULAT,
PLUIALGH: NOWALIA
  Babbitt; Vol. VL W. C. Helmbola +
  Fowler.
PLUTARCH: THE PARALLEL LIVES. B. Perrin,
   11 Vols. (Vols,          τς ὄνοι,
                                  Wi ὙΠ and Xt. θρὰFp)
                   ἸΗΒΤΟΝΥ OF ‘TR WARS. HB
  Dewing. 7 Vols. (Vol. 1. SadImp.)
VIOLEMY: TETRABIBLOS. Cf, MANETHO.
QUINTUS
  (enc SMYRNAEUS. “A. 8. Wes. Verte                i tans
SEXTUS EMPIRICUS, πον. RG. Bury. 4 Vols,
  Vols. L-lIf. (Vol 1, Snd Imp.)
SOPHOCLES. F. Storr. 9 Vols. (Vol. I. 7thImpy Vol.
  ἯΙ.6thImp.) |Versetrans.
STRABO: GEOGRAPHY, Horace L. Jones. 8 Vols
  (ois.I.,V. andὙΠῚ. 2nd Jmp.)
‘THEOPHRASTUS:
  HERODES,ete, A.D.     CHARACTERS.
                             Knox, (πὰ Imp.)  J. M. Edmonds;
THEOPHRASTUS; ENQUIRY INTO PLANTS. Sir
  ‘Arthur Hort. 2 Vols.
TIUCYDIDES.
  Vols. Ul, IIT. andC.F,
                      1V. Smith.
                          9nd Imp.4Vols.
                                    vevisad,) (Vol.13rdImp
TRYPHIODORUS. Gf. OPPIAN.
      OPHON: CYROPAEDIA. Walter Miller, 2 Vola,
           ‘Snd Zp. Vol. Ul. ϑγὰ Imp,
                               ry

<<<MURRAY_VOL1_PDF_PAGE_495>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
XENOPHON     :HELLENICA,
  ‘axp SYMPOSIUM.              ANABASIS,
                        C. Τα ‘rownson and APOLOGY,
                                           Ὁ, J. ‘Todd:
  3 Vols. (VolsI.and ΠῚ, Snd.finp»Vol,IL Sed Imp
XENOPHON: MEMORABILIA ἀπὸ ‘OECONO MIELE,
  EC. Marchant,SOMITA'RUINORA,
XEROPHONS         (2nd.                B.C. Marchant
  πὰ Imp.)
         VOLUMES IN PREPARATION
               ‘GREER AUTWORS
ALCIPHRON. _A, R. Benner and ¥, I, Robes.
ARISTOTLE: DE MUNDO,ete, WW. KC.Guthrie,
ARISTOTLE: HISTORY uf ANIMALS,” AL. Peck.
ARISTOTLE: METEOROLOGICA. Η Ὁ, P. Lee,
DEMOSTHENES. “EPISTLES, ee) ΝΟ, and
                   Earns AUTHORS
8. AUGUSTINE: CITY OF GOD, W. H. Semple.
 (CICERO ἢ AD HERENNIUM. Ἡ,Cay
         2 PRO SESTIO, “IN “Vs
  CAELIO, DE PROVINCIIS CONSULARIBU!
  BALBO.” J. Ἡ. Freese and R. Gardner.
PRUDENTIUS. Ἡ, J. Thomson.


    DESORIPTIVE PROSPEOTUS ΟΝ APPLIOATION
   canparpay, 31483.                LONDON
 HARVARD UNIV, PRESS        WILLIAM HEINEMANN LD
       ‘loth $2.50,                 loth τοι,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_012>>>
THE       ODYSSEY

                  BOOK       XIII
    So he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence,
and were spelibound throughout the shadowy halls.
‘And Aleinous again answered him, and said:
    “Odysseus, since thou hast come to my high-roofed
house with floor of brass, thou shalt not, methinks,
be driven back, and return with bafled purpose,
‘even though thou hast suffered much. And to each
man of you that in my halls are ever wont to drink
the flaming wine of the elders, and to listen    tothe
minstrel, Ispeak, and give this charge. Raiment
for the stranger lies already stored in the polished
chest, with gold curiously wrought and all the other
  ifts which the counsellors of the Phaeacians brought
  ther. But, come now, let us give him ἃ great
tripod and a cauldron, each man of us, and we in
tum will gather the cost from among the people, and
repay ourselves. It were hard for one man to give
freely, without requital.”
    So spake Alcinous, and his word was pleasing to
them. They then went, each man to his house, to
take their rest; but as soon as early Dawn appeared,
the rosy-fingered, they hastened to the ship and
brought the bronze, that gives strength to men.
‘And the strong and mighty Alcinous went himself
                                                      3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_014>>>
“THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 21-46
    throughout the ship, and careful stowed the gifts
    beneath the benches, that they lymight         not hinder
    any of the crew at their rowing, when they           busily
    plied the oars. Then they went to the house               of
    Alleinous, and prepared a feast.
       And for them the strong
   sacrificed a bull to Zeus, son ofandCronos,
                                           mighty Alcinous
                                                   god of the
   dark cloudwho  s, islord of
                             all.    Then,     when  they had
   bumed the thigh-piecesthey  , feastedaglorious feast,
   and made merry, and among them the divine min.
   strel Demodocus, held in honour by the        people, sang
 tothe lyre. But Odysseus would ever turn
   toward the blazing sun, eager to see it set, forhis verily
                                                          head
  he was eager to return home. And as a man longs
  for supper, for whom all day longayoke ofwine-darke
  oxen has drawn the jointed
  land, and gladly for him doesploughthe
                                             through fallow
                                           light
  sink, that he may busy him with his supper,of and   the sun
                                                            his
  knees grow weary as he goes; even 80 gladly for
  Odysseus did the light of sun sink. Straightway
 then he spoke among the thePhaeacia     ns, lovers of the
 ‘oar, and to Aleinous above all he declared        his word,
 and sai
     “Lord Aleinous, renowne
 libations now, and send ye med onabove my
                                             all men, pour
                                             way
 sand yourselves too—Farewell |For now allin thetpeace;    my
 heart desired has been brought to pass: a convoy,
and gifts of friendship. May the gods of heaven
bless them to me, and on my
my home my peerless wife withreturnthosemayI love   I find in
                                                          un-
seathed; and may you again, remaining here, make
glad your wedded wives
gods grant you prosperityandof ‘children
                                  every
                                           ; and may the
                                         sort,  and may no
evil come upon your people.
                                                            5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_016>>>
*       THE ODYSSEY, ΧΠῚ. 47-15
     So he spoke, and they all praised his words, and
  bade send the stranger on his way, since he’ had
 spoken fittingly. Then the mighty Alcinous spoke
  to the herald, saying: « Pontonous, mix the bowl,
and serve out wine to all in the hail, in order that,
  when we have made prayertofather Zeus, we may
 send forth the stranger to his own native land.”
     So he spoke, and Pontonous mixed the honey-
 hearted wine and served out to all, coming up to
  each in turn; and they poured libations to the
 Dlessed gods, who hold ‘broad heaven, from where
 they sat.” But goodly Odysseus arose, and placed in
 the hand of Aretethetwo-handled eup, and spoke,
 and addressed her with winged words:
     “Fare thee well, O queen, throughout all the
 ‘years, till old age and death come, which are the lot
 of morals. As for me, Igo my way, but do thou in
 this house have joy of thy children and thy people
 and Aleinous the king.”
     So the goodly Odysseus spake and passed over the
 threshold. And with him the mighty Aleinous sent
 forth a herald to lead him to the swift ship and the
shore of the sea. And Arete sent with him slave
 women, one bearing a newly washed cloak and a
 tunie, and another again she bade follow to bear
the strong chest, and yet another bore bread and
red. wine.
     But when they had come down to the ship and
to the sea, straightway the lordly youths that were
his escort took these things, and stowed them in
tthe hollow ship, even all the food and drink. ‘Then
for Odysseus they spread ἃ rug and a linen sheet
fon the deck of the hollow ship at the stern, that
he might sleep soundly; and he too went aboard,
                                                     ?

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_018>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 76-104
  and laid him down in silence. ‘Then they sat
  down on the benches, each in order, and loosed the
  hhawser from the pierced stone. And as soon as they
  leaned back, and tossed the brine with their oar
  blades, sweet sleep fell upon his eyelids, an un-
  awakening sleep, mostsweet, and most like to death.
  And as on a plain four yoked stallions spring forward
 all together beneath the strokes of the lash, and
 leaping on high swiftly accomplish their way, even
 so the stern of that ship leapt on high, and in her
 ‘wake the dark waveof the loud-sounding sea foamed
 mightily, and she sped safely and surely on her way;
 not even the circling hawk, the swiftest of winged
 ‘things, could have kept pace with her. ‘Thus she
 sped on swiftly and clove the waves of the sea,
 Dearing aman the peer of the gods in counsel, one
 who in time past had suffered many griefs at heart
 {in passing through wars ofmen and the grievous
 waves; but now he slept in peace, forgetful of all
 that he had suffered,
    Now when that brightest of stars rose which
 ever comes to herald the light of early Dawn,
even then the seafaring ship drew near to the
island.
    ‘There is in the land of Ithaca a certain harbour of
 Phoreys, the old man of the sea, and at its mouth
 two projecting headlands sheer to seaward, but slop-
ing down on the side toward the harbour. These
keep back the great waves raised by heavy winds
without, but within the benched ships lie umoored
when they have reached the point of anchorage. At
the head of the harbour is a Iong-leafed olive tree,
and near it a pleasant, shadowy eave sacred to the
nymphs that are called Naiads.” Therein are mixing

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_020>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 105-133
π΄ ον: and jars of stone, and there too the bees store
    honey. And in the eave are long looms of stone, at
    which the nymphs weave webs of purple dye, a
    wonder to behold; and therein are also ever-fowing
    springs. Two doors there are to the cave, one
    toward the North Wind, by which men go down,
    but that toward the South Wind is sacred, nor do
    men enter thereby; it is the way of the immortals.
        Here they rowed in, knowing the place of old;
    and the ship ran full half her length on the shore in
    her swift course, at such pace was she driven by the
    arms of the rowers. ‘Then they stepped forth from
   tthe benched ship upon the lend, and first they lifted
    Odysseus   outof the hollow ship, with the linen sheet
   and bright rag as they were, and laid im down on
   the sand, still overpowered by sleep. And they
   lifted out the goods which the lordly Phacacians had
   given him, as he set out for home, through the
   favour of great-hearted Athene. ‘These they set all
   together by the trunk of the olive tree, out of the
   path, lest haply some wayfarer, before Odysseus
   awoke, might come upon them and spoil them. Then
   they themselves returned home again. But the
   Shaker of the Earth did not forget the threats where-
   ‘with at the first he had threatened godlike Odysseus,
   and he thus enquired of the purpose of Zeus :
        “Father Zeus, no longer shall I, even I, be held
   in honour among the immortal gods, seeing that
   mortals honour me not a whit—even the Phaeacians,
   who, thou knowest, are of my own lineage. For I
   bbut now declared that Odysseus should suffer many
   woes ere he reached his home, though I did not
   wholly rob him of his return when once thou hadst
   promised it and confirmed it with thy nod yet in

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_022>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΠῚ. 134-16r
  his sleep these men have borne him in a swift ship
  over the sea and set him down in Ithaca, and have
  given him gifts past telling, stores of bronze and gold
  ‘and woven raiment, more than Odysseus would ever
  have won for himself from Troy, if he had returned
  unscathed with his due share of the spoil.”
     Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered him, and
 said: “Ah me, thou shaker of the earth, wide of sway,
  what athing hast thou said! ‘The gods do thee no
 dishonour; hard indeed would it be to assail with
 dishonour our eldest and best. But as for men, if
 ‘any one, yielding to his might and strength, fails to
 do thee honour in aught, thou mayest ever take
 vengeance, even thereafter, Do as thou wilt, and
 as is thy good pleasure,”
     Then Poseidon, the earth-shaker, answered him:
 “Straightway should I have done as thou sayest,
 thou god of the dark clouds, but I ever dread and
 avoid thy wrath. But now Iam minded to smite the
 fair ship of the Phaeacians, as she comes back from
 hhis convoy on the misty deep, that hereafter they
 may desist and cease from giving convoy to men,
 and to fling a great mountain about their city.”
     Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered him and
said: “Lazy one, hear what seems best in my sight.
‘When all the people are looking forth from the city
upon herasshe speeds on her way, then do thou
turn her to stone hard by the land—a stone in the
shape of a swift ship, that all men may marvel; and
do thou fiing a great mountain about their city.’
    Now when Poseidon, the earth-shaker, heard this
he went his way to Scheria, where the Phacacians
well, and there he waited. And she drew close
toshore,theseafaring ship, speeding swiftly on her
                                                       13

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_024>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 162-189
way. ‘Then near her came the Earth-shaker and
tured her to stone, and rooted her fast beneath by
ἃ blow of the flat of his hand, and then he was gone.
    But they spoke winged yords to one another, the
 Phaeacians of the long oars, men famed for their
   ips. And thus would one speak, with a glance at
his neighbour:
    “Ah me, who has now bound our swift ship on
the sea as she sped homeward? Lo, she was in
plain sight.”
     ‘So would one of them spesk, but they knew
not how these things were to be. Then Aleinous
addressed their company and said :
    “Lo now, verily the oracles of my father, uttered
long ago, have come upon me. He was wont to say
that Poseidon was wroth with us because we give
safe convoy to all men, He said that some day, as
‘a beautiful ship of the Phaeacians was returning from
aemnvoy over the misty deep, Poseidon would smite
her,and would fling a great mountain about our town.
So that old man spoke, and lo, now all this is being
brought to pass. But now come, as I bid let us all
obey. Cease ye to give convoy to mortals, when
anyone comes to our city, and let us sacrifice to
Poseidon twelve choice bulls, if haply he may take
pity, and not fling a lofty mountain about our
town”
    So he spoke, and they, were seized with fear and
made ready the bulls. “Thus they were praying to
the lord Poseidon, the leaders and counsellors of the
land of the Phaeacians, as they stood about the altar,
but, Odysseus awoke Gut of his sleep in his native
land. Yet he knew it not after his long absence,
for about him the goddess had shed a mist, even
                                                     45

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_026>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII, 190-218
 Pallas Athene, daughter of Zeus, that she might
render him unknown, and tell him all things, so that
 his wife might not know him, nor his townsfolk, nor
 his friends, until the wooers had paid the fall price
of all their transgressions. ‘Therefore allt
seemed strange to their lord, the long paths, the
bays offering safe anchorage, the sheer clif s, and the
luxuriant trees. So he sprang up and stood and
looked upon his native land, and then he grosned
and smote both of his thighs with the fat of his
hands, and mournfully spoke, and
    “Woe is me, to the land of what mortals am I
now come? Are they cruel, and wild, and unjust?
or do they love strangers and fear the gods in their
thoughts? Whither shall I bear all this wealth, or
whither shall 1 myself go’ wandering on? Would
that I had remained there among the Phaeacians,

                        Ὁ yet here will I not leave it,
lest haply it become the spoil of others to my cost.
Out upon them ;not wholly wise, it seems, nor just
were the leaders and counsellors of the Phaeacians
who have brought me toa strange land. Verily they
said that they would bring me to clear-seen Ithaca,
but they have not made good their word. May Zeus,
‘the suppliant’s god, requite them, who watches over
all men, and punishes him that sins. But come,
Twill number the goods, and go over them lest to
my cost these men have carried off aught with them
in the hollow ship.””
   So he spake, and set him to count the beautiful
tripods, and the cauldrons, and the gold, and the
                                                    x7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_028>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 219-249
  fair woven raiment, and of these he missed nothing,
  ‘Then, mournfully longing for his native land, he
  paced by the shore of the loud-sounding sea, uttering
  many amoan. And Athene drew near him in the
  form of a young man, aherdsman of sheep, one most
  delicate,ἐδare the sons of princes. In a double fold
 ‘about her shoulders she wore a well-wrought cloak,
 and beneath her shining feet she had sandals, and in
 her hands ἃ spear. Then Odysseus was glad at
      cht of her, and came to meet her, and he spoke,
 and addressed her with winged word
     “Friend, since thou art the first to whom I have
 ‘come in this land, hail to thee, and mayst thou meet
 me with no evil mind. Nay, save this treasure, and
 save me; for to thee do I pray, as to a god, and am
 come to thy dear knees. And tell me this also traly,
 that I may know full well. What land, what people
isthis? What men dwell here? Is {t some clear-
 seen island, or a shore of the deep-soiled mainland
‘thatliesresting on the sea?”
     ‘Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him: “A fool artthou, stranger, orart come from far,
 if indeed thou askest ofthis land. Surely itis no wise
 so nameless, but full many know it, both all those
 who dwell toward the dawn and the sun, and all those
 that are behind toward the murky darkness.          It is a
 ragged isle, not fit for driving horses, yet it is not ut-
 terly poor, though it be but narrow. Therein grows
 corn beyond measure, and the wine-grape as well, and
 the rain never fails it, nor the rich dew. It is a good
 land for pasturing goats and kine; there are frees
 of every fort and init also pools for watering that
 fail not the year through. Therefore, stranger, the
 name of Ithviea has reached even tothe land of Troy.
 which, they say, is far from this land of Achaea.”
                                                         19

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_030>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 250-278
     So she spake, and the much-enduring,           go dly
  Odysseus wes glad, and rejoiced in his lind, the
  land of his fathers,ashe heard the word of Pallas
  Athene, daughter of Zeus, who bears the aegis ;and
  he spoke, and addressed her with winged words; yet
  he spoke not the truth, but checked the word ere it
 was uttered, ever revolving in his breast thoughts
 of great cunning:
    Theard of Ithaca, even in broad Crete, far over
 the sea; and now have 1 myself come hither with
 these my goods. And I left as much more with
 my children, when 1 fled the land, after I had slain
 the dear son of Idomeneus, Orsilochus, swift of
 foot, who in broad Crete surpassed in fleetness all
 men that live by toil, Now he would have robbed
 me of all that booty of Troy, for which I had borne
    ief of heart, passing through wars of men and the
 grievous waves, for that I would not shew favour
 ἴο his father, and serve as his squire in the land
 of the Trojans, but commanded other men of my
 own, 801 smote him with my bronze-tipped spear
 as he came home from the field, lying in wait for
 him with one of my men by the roadside, A dark
night covered the heavens, and no man was ware
of us, but unseen I took away his life. Now when
Τ had slain him with the sharp bronze, I went
straightway to a ship, and made prayer to the lordly
Phoenicians, giving ‘them booty to satisfy their
hearts. I bade them take me aboard and land me
at Pylos,orat goodly Elis, where the Epeans hold
sway. Yet verily the force of the wind thrust them
away from thence, sore against their will, nor did
they purpose to play me false; but driven wandering
from thence we came hither by night With eager

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_032>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 279-307
 haste we rowed on into the harbour, nor had we any
 thought of supper, sore as was our need of it, but
 even as we were we went forth from the ship and
 lay down, one and all. Then upon me came sweet
 sleep in my weariness, but they took my goods out
 of the hollow ship and set them where I myself lay
 fon the sands, And they went on board, and de-
 parted for the well-peopled land of Sidon; but I
 ‘was left here, my heart sore troubled.”
    So he spoke, and the goddess, fashing-eyed
 Athene, smiled, and stroked him with her hand, and
 changed herelf to the form of ἃ woman, comely
 and tall, and skilled in glorious handiwork. An
 she spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
    “Canning must he be and knavish, who would go
 beyond thee in all manner of guile, aye, though it
were a god that met thee. Bold’ man, crafty in
counsel, insatiate in deceit, not even in thine own
land, it seems, wast thon to cease from guile and
deceitful tales, which thou lovest from the bottom
of thine heart. But come, let us no longer talk of
this, being bothwell versed in craft, since thou art
far ‘the best of all men in counsel’ and in speech,
and [among all the gods am famed for wisdom and.
craft. Yet thou didst not know Pallas Athene,
daughter of Zeus, even ine, who ever stand by thy
side, and guard thee in all toils. Aye, and I made
thee beloved by all the Phaeacians, "And now am I
‘come hither to weave a plan with thee, and to hide
all the treasure, which the lordly Phaeacians gave
thee by my counsel and will, when thou didst set
out for home; and to tell thee all the measure of
woe it is thy fate to folfl in thy well-built house.
But do thou be strong, for bear it thou must, and
                                                  23

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_034>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 308-334
     tell no man of them all nor any woman that thou
     hast come back from thy wanderings, but in silence
     endure thy many grief, and submit fo the violence
        Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
     said: “Hard is it, goddess, for a mortal man to
     know thee when he meets thee, how wise soever
     he be, for thou takest what shape thou wilt. But
     this [ know well, that of old thou wast kindly
     toward me, so long as we sons of the Achaeans
     were warring in the land of Troy. But after we
     had sacked the lofty city of Priam, and had gone
     away in our ships, and a god had scattered the
     Achaeans, never since then have I seen thee,
     daughter of Zeus, nor marked thee coming on board
     my ship, that thou mightest ward off sorrow from
     me. Nay, 1 ever wandered on, bearing in my
     breast a stricken heart, till the gods delivered me
     from evil, even until in the rich land of the
     Phaeacians thou didst cheer me with thy words,
    and thyself lead me to thei ety. But now Ibex
    seech thee by thy father—for Ithink not that I am
    come to elear-seen Ithaca;nay, it is some other land
    over which I roam, and thou, methinks, dost speak
    thus in mockery ἴο beguile my mind—tell me
    whether in very truth I'am come to my dear native
    land.”
       Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
    him: “Ever such is the thought in thy breast, and
    therefore it is that I cannot leave thee in thy
sorrow, for thou art soft of speech, keen of wit, and
    prudent. Eagerly would another man on his réturn
    from wanderings have hastened to behold in his
    halls his children and his wife; but thou art not
                                                      ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_036>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 335-361
  yet minded to know or learn of aught, till thou
ἦαοι furthermore proved thy wife, who abides as of
old in her halls, and ever sorrowfully for her the
nights and days wane,asshe weeps. But as for me,
I never doubted of this, but in my heart knew
well, that thou wouldest come home after losing; all
thy ‘comrades. Yet, thou must know, I was not
minded to strive against Poseidon, my father's
brother, who laid up wrath in his ‘heart against
thee, angered that thou didst blind his dear son.
But come, I will shew thee the land of Ithaca, that
thou mayest be sure. This is the harbour of
Phoreys, the old man of the sea, and here at the
head of the harbour is the long-leafed olive tree,
and near itis the pleasant, shadowy cave, sacred to
the nymphs that are called Naiads. This, thou
must know, is the vaulted cave in which thon wast
wont to offer to the nymphs many heeatombs that
bring falfllment; and. yonder is Mount Neriton,
clothed with its forests.”
    So spake the goddess, and scattered the mist,
and the land appeared. Glad then was the much-
enduring, goodly Odysseus, rejoicing. in his own
land, and he kissed the earth, the giver of grain,
And straightway he prayed to the nymphs with ‘up-
stretched hands
    “Ye Naud Nymphs, daughters of Zeus, never
did I think to behold you again, but now I hail you
with loving prayers. “Aye, and gifts too will I give,
as aforetime, if the daughter of Zeus, she that drives
the spoil, shall graciously grant me to live, and shall
bring to manhood my dear son.””
   Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
      a                                              Ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_038>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 362-389
  him again: Be of good cheer, and let not these
 things distress thy heart, But’ let us now forth-
 with set thy goods in the innermost recess of the
 wondrous cave, where they may abide for thee in
 safety, and let us ourselves take thought how all
 may be far the best.”
    So saying, the goddess entered the shadowy eave
 and searched out its hiding-places. And Odysseus
 brought all the treasure thither, the gold and the
 stubborn bronze and the finely-wrought raiment,
 which the Phacacians gave him. These things he
 carefully laid away, and Pallas Athene, daughter
 of Zeus, who bears the aegis, set a stone at the
 door. Then the two sat them down by the trunk
 of the sacred olive tree, and devised death for the
 insolent wooers. And the goddess, flashing-eyed
 ‘Athene, was the first to speak, sayin
    «Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, take thought how thou mayest put
 forth thy hands on the shameless wooers, who now
for three years have been lording it in thy halls,
wooing thy godlike wife, and offering wooers’ gi
And she, asshe mournfully looks forthy coming, offers
hopes to all, and has promises for each man, sendinj
them messages, but her mind is set on other things.’
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lonow,ofa suretyIwaslike to have perished
in my halls by the evil fate of Agamemnon, son of
Atreus, hadst not thou, goddess, duly told me all.
Bat come, weave some plan bywhich I may requite
them ard stand thyel! byty aide and cada me
with dauntless courage, even as when we loosed the
bright diadem of Troy. Wouldest thou but stand
by my side, thou flashing-eyed one, as eager as thou
                                                   29

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_040>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 390-417
 wast then, I would fight even against three hundred
 men, with thee, mighty goddess, if with a ready
 heart thou wouldest give me aid.”
     Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him:“Yea verily, I will be with thee, and will not
 forget thee, when we are busied with this work ;
 and methinks many a one of the wooers that
 devour thy substance shall bespatter the vast earth
 with his blood and brains. But come, Iwill make
 thee unknown toall mortals. I will shrivel the fair
 skin on thy supple limbs, and destroy the flaxen
 hair from off thy head, and clothe thee in a ragged
 garment, such that one would shudder to see ἃ man
 clad therein. And I will dim thy two eyes that
 were before so beautiful, that thou mayest appear
 mean in the sight of all the wooers, and of thy
wife, and of thy son, whom thou didst leave in thy*
halls. And for thyself, do thou go first of all to the
grincherd who Keeps thy swine, and withal has ας
Kindly heart towards thee, and loves thy son and
constant Penelope. ‘Thou wilt find him abiding by
the swine, and they are feeding by the rock of
Corax and the spring Arethusa, eating acorns to
their heart's content and drinking the biack water,
things which cause the rich flesh of swine to wax
fat. ‘There do thou stay, and sitting by his side
question him of all things, while I go to Sparta, the
land of fair women, to summon thence Telemachus,
thy dear son, Odysseus, who went to spacious Lace
daemon to the house of Menelaus, to seek tidings
of thee, if thou wast still anywhere alive.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her:
“Why then, I pray thee, didstthou not tell him,
thou whose mind knows all things? Nay, was it
                                                    3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_042>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 418-440
  baply that he too might suffer woes, wandering
 over the unresting sea, and that others might
 devour his substance ?”
     Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him: Nay verily,notfor him be thy heartovermuch
 troubled. It wasI that guided him, that he might
 win good report by going thither, and he has no
 toil, but sits in peace in the palace of the son of
 Atreus, and good cheer past telling is before him.
 ‘Truly young men in a black ship lie in wait for him,
 eager ‘to slay him before he comes to his native
 land, but methinks this shall not be. Ere that shall
 the ‘earth cover many a one of the wooers that
 devour thy substance.”
    ‘So saying, Athene touched him with her wand.
 She withered the fair flesh on his supple limbs, and
destroyed the flaxen hair from off his head, and
about all hislimbs she pat the,skin of an aged old
man. And she dimmed his two eyed that were be-
fore so beautiful, and clothed him inother raiment, «
vile ragged cloak and ἃ tunic, tattered garments and
foul, begrimed with filthy smoke. And about him
she cast the great skin of ἃ swift hind, stripped of
the hair, and she gave him a staff, and’a miserable
wallet, fall of holes, slung by a twisted cord.
    So when the two had thus taken counsel together,
they parted; and thereupon the goddess went to
goodly Lacedaemon to fetch the son of Odysseus.



                                                 33

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_044>>>
BOOK XIV
    Bor Oayoseus went fort from the harbour by the
 rough path up over the woodland and through the
 heights to the place where Athene had shewed him
 that he should find the goodly swineherd, who eared
 for his substance above all the slaves that goodly
 Odysseus had gotten.
    He found him sitting in the fore-hall of his
 house, where his court was built high in a place
 of wide outlook, a great and goodly court with an
 open space around it. This the swincherd hed
 himself built for the swine of his master, that was
‘gone, without the knowledge of his mistrets and the
 old man Laertes. With huge stones had he built it,
and set on it ἃ coping of thorn. Without he hed
driven stakes the whole length, this way and that,
hhuge stakes, set close together, which he had made
by splitting an oak to the black core; and within
the court he had made twelve sties close by one
another, as beds for the swine, and in each one were
penned fifty wallowing swine, females for breeding;
bat the boars slept without. ‘These were far fewer
in numbers, for on them the godlike wooers feasted,
and lessened them, for the swincherd ever sent in
‘the best of all the fated hogs, which numbered
three hundred and sixty. By these ever slept four
dogs, savage as wild beasts, which the swineherd had
       ἃ Others ronder, “splitting off the black bark.”
                                                        35

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_046>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 23-50
reared, a leader of men. But he himself was fitti
boots about his feet, cutting an oxchide of goi
 colour, while the others had gone, three of them, one
 here one there, with the droves of swine; and the
 fourth he had sent  tothe city todrive perforce a boar
to the insolent wooers, that they might slay it and
satey their souls withmet
    Suddenly then the baying hounds caught sightof
Odysseus, and rushed upon: him with lord barking,
but Odysseus sat down in his cunning, and the stait
fell from his hand. ‘Then even in his own farmstead
‘would he have suffered cruel hurt, but the swineherd
with swift steps followed after them, and hastened
through the gateway, and the hide fell from his
hand. He called aloud to the dogs and drove
them this way and that with a shower of stones, and
spoke to his master, and sai
   Old man, verily the dogs were like to have torn
thee to pieces all of a sudden, and on me thou
wouldest have shed reproach. Aye, and the
hhave given me other griefs and sorrows. It isfor a
godlike master that I mourn and grieve, as I abide
here,   andrear fat swine for other men to eat, while
he haply in want of food wanders over the land and
city of men of strange speech, if indeed he still lives
and sees the light ofthe sun, But come with me
let us go to the hut, old man, that when thou hast
satisfied thy heart with food and wine, thou too
mayest tell whence thou art, and all the woes thou
hast endured.”
   So saying, the goodly swincherd led him to the
hut, and brought him in, and made him sit, strowing
beneath thiek brushwood, and thereon spreading the
skin ofashaggy wild goat, large and hairy, on which
                                                     3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_048>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 51-76
 he was himself wont to sleep. And Odysseus was
 glad that he gave him such welcome, and spoke, and
 addressed him:
    “Stranger, may Zeus and the other immortal gods
 grant thee what most thou desirest, since thou with
 ἃ ready heart hast given me welcome.”
    To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
answer, andsay : “ Nay, stranger,  itwerenot right for
 me, even though one meaner than thou were to come,
toslighta stranger: for from Zeusare all strangers and
 beggars,  andagift,though small, swelcome from such
aswe; since thisis the lot of slaves, ever in fear when
 over them as lords their masters hold sway—young
 masterssuch   asours. For verily the gods have stayed
 the return of him who would have loved me with all
 kindness, and would have given me possessions of my
 own, a house and a bit of land, and a wife, sought of
‘many wooers, even such things as ἃ kindly master
 gives to his thrall who has toiled much for him, and
 whose labour the god makes to prosper, even as this
‘work of mine prospers,to which Igive heed. There-
fore would my master have richly rewarded me, if he
had grown old here at home: but he perished—as I
would all the kindred of Helen had perished in
utter ruin, since she loosened the knees of many
warriors. "For he too went forth to win recompense
for Agamemnon to Ilios, famed for its horses, that
he might fight with the Trojans.”
   80 saying, he quickly bound up his tunic with
belt, and went to the sties, where the tribes of swine
‘were penned. Choosing two from thence, he brought
them in and slew them both, and singed, and cut
them up, and spitted them. Then, when he bad
roasted all, he brought and set it before Odysseus,
                                                     39

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_050>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 77-105
  hot upon the spits, and sprinkled over it white
  barley meal. Then in'a bowl of ivy wood he mixed
  honey-sweet wine, and himselfsat down over against
  Odysseus, and bade him to his food, and said:
     “Eat now, stranger, such food as slaves have to
  offer, meat of young pigs; the fatted hogs the wooers
  cat, who reck not in their hearts ofthe wrath of the
  gods, nor have any pity. Verily the blessed gods
  love not reckless deeds, but they honour justice and
  the righteous deeds of men, Even erael foemen
 that set foot on the land of others, and Zeus gives
 them booty, and they fill their ships and depart for
 home—even on the hearts of these falls great fear of
 the wrath of the gods. But these men here, look
 you, know somewhat, and have heard some voice of
 ἃ god regarding my master's pitiful death, secing
 that they will not woo righteously, nor go back to
 their own, but at their ease they waste our sub-
 stance in insolent wise, andthere isno sparing. For
 every day and night ‘that comes from Zeus they
 sacrifice not one vietim nor two alone, and they draw
 forth wine, and waste it in insolent wise. Verily his
 substance was great past teling, so much has no lord
 either on the dark mainland or in Ithaca itself; nay,
 not twenty men together have wealth so great. Lo,
 I will tell thee the tale thereof; twelve herdsof kine
hhas he on the mainland; as many flocks ofsheep; as
many droves of   swine; asmanypacked herds of goats
do herdsmen, both foreigners and of his own people,
pasture, And here too graze roving herds of goats
‘on the borders of the island, eleven in all, and over
them trusty men keep watch. And each man of
these ever drives up day by day one of his flock for
                                                    “

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_052>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 106-132
the wooers, even that one of the fatted goats which
seems to him the best, But asfor me, I guard and
keep these swine, and choose out with eare and send,
‘them the best of ‘the boars.”
    So he spoke, but Odysseus eagerly? ate flesh and
drank wine, greedily, in silence, and was sowing the
seeds of evil for the wooers. But when he had
dined, and satisfied his soul with food, then the
swineherd filled the bow] from which he was himself
‘wont to drink, and gave it him brim full of wine, and
hie took it, and was glad at heart; and he spoke, and
addressed him with winged word
    “Friend, who was it who bought thee with his
wealth, aman so very rich and’ mighty, as thon
tellest? ‘Thou saidest that he died to win recom-
pense for Agamemnon; tell me, if haply may know
him, being such     anone. For Zeus,         Iween, and the
other immortal gods know whether I have seen him,
and could bring tidings; for I have wandered far.”
    Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
him: “Old man, no wanderer that came and brought
tidings of him could persuade his wife and his dear
‘son nay, at random, when they have need of enter-
tainment, do vagabonds lie, and are not minded to
speak the truth." Whosoever in his wanderings comes
to the land of Ithaca, goes to my mistress and tells
fa deceitful tale. And she, receiving him kindly,
fives him entertainment, and questions him of a
things, and the tears fall from her eyelids, while she
‘weeps, a5 is the way of a woman, when her husband
      afar, And readily wouldest thou too, old man,
fashion a story, if one Would give thee a cloak and ἃ
  2ntvedas
‘cwih        appears theeverywhere
        Linknele™          etjnclgyelseiwancertain. 1 mneunin, χὰ
                                                              43

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_054>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 133-160
 tunic for raiment. Butasfor him, ere now dogs and
 swift birds are like to have torn’ the flesh from his
 ones, and his spirit has left him; or in the sea
 fishes have eaten him, and his bones lie there on
 the shore, wrapped in deep sand. Thus has he
 perished yonder, and to his friends grief is appointed
 for daystocome,toall, but most of all to me. For
 never again shall 1 find a master so kind, how far so-
 ever Igo, not though I come again to the house of
 my father and mother, where at the first. I was born,
 and they reared me themselves, Yet it is not for
 them that I henceforth mourn so much, eager though
 Tam to behold them with my eyes and to be in my
 native land ; nay, it is longing for Odysseus, who is
 gone, that seizes me. His name, stranger, absent
 though he is, I speak with awe, for greatly did he
 love me and care for me at heart; but I call him
 my lord beloved, for all he is not here.”
    ‘Then the imuch-enduring, goodly Odysseus
auawered     bina: "Friend, singe thoa dost atten
 mnake denial, and declarest that he will never come
again, and thy heart is ever unbelieving, therefore
will I tell thee, not at random but with an oath,
that Odysseus shall return, And let me have ἃ
reward for bearing good tidings, as soon as he shall
come, and reach his home; elothe me in. a cloak
and tunic, goodly raiment. But ere that, how sore
soever my need, I will accept naught; for hateful in
my eyes as the gates of Hades is that man, who,
yielding to stress of poverty, tells a deceitful tale.
Now be my witness Zeus, above all gods, and this
hospitable board, and the hearth of noble Odysseus
to which 1 am’ come, that verily all these thin
shall be brought to pass even as I tell thee. In
                                                     “5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_056>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 161-185
the course of this self-same year! Odysseus shall
‘come hither, as the old moon ‘wanes, and the new
appears, He shall return, and take ‘vengeance on
all those who here dishonour his wife and his
glorious son.”
   To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou
make answer, and say: “Old man, neither shall 1,
meseems, pay thee this reward for bearing good tide
ings, nor shall Odysseus ever come to his home.
Nay, drink in peace, and let us tum our thoughts
to other things, and do not thou recall this to my
mind; for verily the heart in my breast is grieved
whenever any one makes mention of my good
master. But asfor thy oath, we will let it bes yet
Iwould that Odysseus might come, even as I desire,
I, and Penelope, and the old man Laertes, and
filike Telerachine, But now it for bls sou, that
     eve unceasingly, even for Telemachus, whom
Offetees    ‘beget, “When the goss hat made him
growlike a sapling, and I thought that he would be
among men no whit worse than his dear father,
glorious in form and comeliness, then some one of
the immortals marred the wise spirit within him, or
hap some man, and he went to sred Pyle after
   lings of his father. For him now the lordly
trooets Ie dn walt on “his homeward way, that the
race of godlike Arceisius may perish out of Ithaca,
and leave no name. But verily we will let him be;
he may be taken, or he may escape, and the son of
Cronos stretch forth his hand to guard him, But
come, do thou, old man, tell me of thine own
  ὁ Inἴδrendering
μιὰ       the      AvedBerrer by
              interpretation  of “dag”
                                 the   iatend
                                       whale    ofby“yen,”
                                             passage, I”have
followed Monro,
                                                         “

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_058>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 186-214
 sorrows, and declare me this truly, that 1 may know
 fall well. Who art thou among men, and from
 whence? Where is thy city, and where thy parents?
 On what manner of ship didst thou come, and how
 did sailors bring thee to Ithaca? Who did they
 declare themselves to be? For nowise, methinks,
 didst thou come hither on foot.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: “Then verily I will frankly tell thee all,
 Would that now we two might have food and sweet
 wine for the while, to feast on in quiet here in thy
 hut, and that others might go about their work;
 easily then mightItell on for a fall year, and yet
 in no wise finish the tale of the woes of my spirit—
 even all the toils that Ihave endured by the will
 of the gods.
    «From broad Crete I declare that I am come by
 lineage, the son of a wealthy man. And many
other sons too were born and bred in his halls, true
sons of a lawful wife; but the mother that bore me
 was bought, a concubine. Yet Castor, son of Hylax,
of whom I declare that I am sprung, honoured me
even as his true-born sons. He was at that time
honoured as a god among the Cretans in the land
for his good estate, and his wealth, and his glorious
sons. But the fates of death bore him away to the
house of Hades, and his proud sons divided among
them his substance, and cast lots therefor. To me
they gave a very small portion, and allotted a
dwelling. But I took unto me a wife from a house
‘that had wide possessions, winning her by my
valour; for I was no weakling, nor a coward in
fight. "Now all that strength is gone; yet even so,
in seeing the stubble, methinks thou mayest judge
                                                   49

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_060>>>
4)
              THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 215-243
    what the grain was; for verily troubles in full
    measure encompass me. But then Ares and Athene
    gave me courage, and strength that breaks the ranks
    of men; and whenever I picked the best warriors
    for anambush, sowing the seeds of evil for the foe,
    never did my’ proud spirit forbode death, but ever
    far the first did I leap forth, and slaywith my spear
    whosoever of the foe gave way in flight before met
    Such a man was I in war, but Iabour in the field was
    never to my liking, nor the care of ahouschold,
    which rears goodly children, but oared ships were
    ever dear tome, and wars, and polished spears, and
    arrows—grievous things, whereat others are wont
    to shudder. But those things, I ween, were dear to
    me, which ἃ god put in my heart ;for different men
    take joy in different works. For before the sons of
    the Achaeans set foot on the land of Troy, I had
    nine times led warriors and swift-faring ships against
    foreign folk, and great spoil had ever fallen to my
    hands. Of this 1 would choose what pleased my
    mind, and much I afterwards obtained by lot. Thus
    my house straightway grew rich, and thereafter I
    Decame one feared and honoured among the Cretan.
       “But when Zeus, whose voiceis borne afar, devised
    that hateful journey which loosened the knees of
    many a warrior, then they bade me and glorious
    Idomeneus to lead the ships to Iios, nor was there
    any way to refuse, for the voice of the people
    pressed hard upon us. ‘There for nine years we sons
    of the Achaeans warred, and in the tenth we sicked
    the city of Priam, and set out for home in our ships,
    and a god scattered the Achacans. But for me,
    wretched man that I was, Zeus, the counsellor,
       + Or possibly, “ whoover was less fet offoot thanI.”
                                                          st
Ι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_062>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 244-272
  devised evil. For amonth only I remained, taking
 joy in my children, my wedded wife, and my wealth;
  and then to Egypt did my spirit bid me voyage with
  ἘΣ godlike comrades, when 1 had ftted out my
         with care. Nine ships 1 fitted out, and the
  how gathered “speedily. "Then for six days my
 ‘trusty comrades feasted, and I gave them many
  vietins, that they might sacrifice to the gods, and
 prepare a feast for themselves ;and on the seventh
 we embarked and set sail from broad Crete, with the
  North Wind blowing fresh and fair, and ran on easily
 as if down stream. No harm came to any of my
 ships, but free ftom scathe and from disease we
 sat, and the wind and the helmsman guided the
 ships.
     On the ith day we came   tofair-fowing Aegyptus,
 and in the river Aegyptus I moored my curved
 ships. ‘Then verily I bade my trusty comrades to
 remain there by the ships, and to guard the ships,
 and I sent out scouts to’ go to places of outlook.
 But my comrades, yielding to wantonness, and led
 on by their own might, straightway set about. wast
 ing the fair fields of the men of Egypt; and they
 carried of the women and little cbildren, and slew
 the men; and the ery came quickly to the city.
Then, hearing the shouting, the people came forth
at break of day, and the whole plain was filled with
footmen, and chariots and the flashing of bronze.
But Zeus who hurls the thunderbolt east an evil
panic upon my comrades, and none hed the courage
to hold his ground and face the foe; for evil sur-
rounded us on every side. So then they slew many
of us with the sharp bronze, and others they led_up
totheir city alive, to work for them perforce, But
                                                   53

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_064>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 273-300
 in my heart Zeus himself put this thought—I would
 that I’had rather died and met my fate there in
 Egypt, for still was sorrow to give me welcome
 Straightway T put of from my head my well wrought
 helmet, and the shield ffon off my shoulders, and
 let the spear fall from my hand, and went toward
 the chariot horses of the king. I clasped, and
 kissed his knees, and he delivered me, and took
 pity on me, and, setting me in his chariot, took me
 weeping to his home. Verily full many rushed
 upon me with their ashen spears, eager to slay me,
 for they were exceeding angry. ut he warded
 them off, and had regard for the wrath of Zeus, the
stranger's god, who above all others hath indignation
at evil deeds.
    “There then I stayed seven years, and much
wealth did I gather among the Egyptians, for all men
gave me gifts. But when the eighth circling year
‘was come, then there came a man of Phoenicia, .well
versed in guile, a greedy knave, who had already
wrought much evil among men. He prevailed upon
me by his cunning, and took me with him, until we
reached Phoenicia, where lay his house and his
possessions. There I remained with him for a full
year. But when at length the months and the days
‘were being broughttofulfilment, as the year rolled
round and the seasons came on, he set me on a
seafaring ship bound for Libya, having given lying
counsel to the end that I should conveyacargo with
hhim, but in truth that, when there, he might sell me
and geta vast price. So I went with him on board the
ship, suspecting his guile, yet perforce. And she ran
before the North Wind, blowing fresh and fair, on a
mid-sea course to the windward of Crete, and Zeus
                                                    55

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_066>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 301-327
devised destruction for the men. But when we had
left Crete, and no other land appeared, but onlysky
and sea, then verily the son of Cronos set a blac!
cloud above the hollow ship, and the sea grew dark
beneath it. Therewith Zeus thundered, and hurled
his bolt upon the ship, and she quivered from stem
to stern, smitten by the bolt of Zeus, and was filled
with sulphurous sinoke, and all the crew fell from
out the ship. Like sea-crows they were borne on
the waves about the black ship, and the god took
from them their returning. But as for me, Zeus
himself when my heart was compassed with woe,
put into my hands the tossing? mast of the dark-
prowed ship, that Imight again escape destruction.
Around this I clung, and was borne by the direful
winds. For nine days I was borne, but on the tenth
Dlack night the great rolling wave brought me to
the land of the ‘Thesprotians. There the king of
the Thesprotians, lord Pheidon, took me in, and
asked no ransom, for his dear son came upon me,
overcome as I was with cold and weariness, and
raised me by the hand, and led me until he came to
his father’s palace; and he clothed me in a cloak
and tunic, as raiment.
   “There 1 leamed of Odysseus, for the king said
that he had entertained hin, and given him weleome
on his way to his native land. And he showed me
all the treasure that Odysseus had gathered, bronze,
‘and gold, and iron, wrought with toil; verily unto the
tenth generation would it feed his children after him,
so great was the wealth that lay stored for him in
the halls of the king. But Odysseus, he said, had
  1 Lit, “raging” Otherw render “huge,” “of great.
length?
                                                     57

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_068>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 328-354
 gone to Dodona, to hear the will of Zens from the
 high-crested onk of the god, even how he might re-
 turn to the rich land of Ithaca afterso longan absence,
 whether openly or in secret. And moreover he swore
 in my own presence, as he poured libations in his
house, that theship was launched, and the men ready,
 who were   toconvey him    tohisdear native land. But
 me he sent forth first, for a ship of the Thesprotians
 chancedtobe setting out for Dulichium, rich in wheat.
‘Thither he bade them to convey mewith kindly care,
to king Acastus. But an evil counsel regarding me
 found favour in their hearts, that I might even yet
 be brought into utter misery. When the sea-faring
ship had sale far ftom the land, they presently
 sought to bring about for me the dayofslavery.
‘They stripped me of my garments, my cloak and
 tunic, and clothed me in other raiment, a vile ragged
 cloak and tunic, even the tattered garments which
 thou seest before thine eyes; and at evening they
 reached the tilled fields of clear-seen Ithaca. ‘Then
 with a twisted rope they bound me fast in the
 benched ship, and themselves went ashore, and
 made haste to take their supper by the shore of
 the sea. But as for me, the gods themselves undid
 my bonds fall easily, and, wrapping the tattered
 cloak about my head, 1 slid down the smooth
 lading-plank,? and brought my breast to the sea,
 and then struck out with both hands, and swam,
 ‘and very soon was out of the water, and away from
 them. ‘Then I went up to a place where there
 was a thicket of leafy wood, and lay there erouch-
 ing, And they went           hither and thither with loud

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_070>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 355-382
  cries; but as there seemed to be no profit in going
  further in their search, they went back again on
 board their hollow ship. And the gods theniselves
 hid me easily, and led me, and brought me to the
 farmstend of ἃ wise man; for sil haply i i my lot,
 to live.”
     To him then, swincherd Eumeeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say :“Ah, wretched stranger, verilythou
 hastsized my heart deeply in telling all the fle of
thy sufferings and thy wanderings. But inthis, me-
thinks, thou hast not spoken aright, nor shalt thou
persuade me with thy tale about Odysseus. Why
shouldst thou, who art in such plight lie to no pur-
pose? Nay, of myself Iknow well regarding the το:
‘tum of my master, that he was utterly hated of all
the gods, in that they did not slay him among the
Trojean, or in   the ange of hs Mende, when he had
wound up the skein of war. ‘Then would the whole
host of the Achaeans have made him a tomb, and for
hhis son too he would have won great glory in days to
come. But asit is the spirits of the storm have swept
him away, and left no tidings. I, for my part, dwell
aloof with the swine, nor do 1 go to the city, unless
haply wise Penelope bids me thither, when tidings
come to her from anywhere. Then men sit around
him that comes, and question him closely, both those
that grieve for their lord, that has long been gone,
tnd those who rejoice, as they devour    hissubstance
withoutatonement. ButIcare not       toask or enquire,
since the time when an Aetolian beguiled me with
his story, one that had killed aman, and after wander-
ing over the wide earth came to my house, and. I
gave him kindly welcome. He said that he had
seen Odysseus among the Cretans at the house of
                                                    6

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_072>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV, 383-213
   Idomencus, mending his ships which storms had shat
   tered, And he said that he would come either by
   summer or by harvest-time, bringing much treasure
   along with his godlike comrades. ‘Thou too, old
  of many sorrows, since a god has brought thee to man
  seek not to win iy favour by lies, nor in any wiseme,to
  cajole me. It is not for this that I shall
  thee respect or kindness, but from fear of Zeus,shew  the
  stranger's god, and from pity for thyself.”
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
  said : “Verily thou hast in thy bosom   a heart
  slow to believe, seeing that in such wise, eventhatwithis
  an oath, I won thee not, neither persuade
  come now, let us make ἃ covenant, nd thethee.         But
                                                 gods whe
 hold Olympus shall bewitnesses for us both in time te
 come, If thymaster returns to house clothe me
 ina cloak and tunic, as raiment, this
                                    and send me on my
 way to Dulichium, where I desite tobe. But
 master does not come as I say, set theslaves uponifmethy
 and fling me down from a great clif, that another
 beggar may beware of deceiving.”
    ‘And the goodly swinehe
 “Aye, stranger, so shouldrd Ianswere   d him, andsaid
                                 indeed win fair fame
 and prosperity ‘among men both now
if I, who brought thee to my hut andand gave    hereafter,
                                                      thee
entertainment, should then slay thee, and take away
thy dear life, ’With a ready
IpraytoZeus, son of Cronos.heart Butthereaft
                                         it is
                                               er should
                                               now time
for supper, and may my comrades soon be here,
‘we may make ready a savoury supper in the hut.”” that
    ‘Thus they spoke to one
and the swincherds drew near.another,
                                    ‘The
                                         and the swine
up to sleep in their wonted sties, andsowsa they
                                               wondrou
                                                      shut
                                                         s
noise arose from them     as,they were penned. Then
the goodly swineherd called to his comrades saying:
            -                                           63

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_074>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 414-441
     “Bring forth the best of the boars, that I may
 slaughter him for the stranger who comes from afur,
 and we too shall have some profit therefrom, who
 have long borne toil and suffering for the sake of the
 white-tusked swine, while others devour our labour
  without atonement.”
    ‘So saying, he split wood with the pitiless bronze,
 and the others brought in a fatted boar of five years
 old, and set him by the hearth. Nor did the swine-
 herd forget the immortals, for he had an understand-
 ing heart, but as a first offering he cast into the fire
 bristles from the head of the white-tusked bonr, and
‘made prayer to all the gods that wise Odysseus
might return to his own house. ‘Then he raised
himself up, and smote the boar with a billet of oak,
which he had left. when splitting     thewood, and the
boat's life left him. And the others cut the boar’s
throat, and singed him, and quickly cut him up, and
the swineherd took as first offerings bits of raw flesh
from all the limbs, and laid them in the rich fat.
These he cast into the fire, when he had sprinkled
them with barley meal, but the rest they cut up and
spitted, and rossted it carefully, and drew it all off
 the spits, and cast it in a heap on platters. Then the
swineherd stood up to carve, for well did his heart
know what was fair, and he cut up the mess and
divided it into seven portions. One with a prayer he
set aside for the nymphs and for Hermes, son of Maia,
and the resthe distributed to each. And Odysseus
he honoured with the long chine of the white-tusked
boar, and made glad the heart of his master; and
Odysseus of many wiles spoke to him, and said:
    ““Bumaeus, mayest thou be as dear to father Zeus
‘as thou art to me, since thou honourest me with a
good portion, albeit I am in such plight.”            é

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_076>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 442-468
    ‘To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say: “Eat, unhappy stranger, and have
 joy of such fare as is here. It is the god that will
 give one thing and withhold another, even as seems
 {good to his heart; for he can do all things.”
    He spoke, and sacrificed the firstling pieces to the
 gods that are for ever, and, when he had made liba-
 tions of the flaming wine, he placed the cup in the
 hands of Odysseus, the sacker of cities, and took his
 seat by his own portion. And bread was served to
 them by Mesauliue, whom the swineherd had gotten
 by himself alone, while his master was gone, without
the knowledge of his mistress or the old’ Laertes,
buying him of the Taphians with his own goods. So
 they put forth their hands to the good cheer lying
ready before them. But when they had put from
them the desire of food and drink, Mesaulius took
away the food, and they were fain to go to their
rest, sated with bread and meat.
   ‘Now the night came on, foul and without a moon,
and Zeus rained the whole night through, and the
West Wind, ever the rainy wind, blew strong. Then
Odysseus spoke among them, ‘making trial of the
swineherd, to see whether he would strip off his own
cloak and give it him, or bid some other of his com-
rades to do so, since he cared for him so greatly :
   “Hear me now, Eumaeus and all the rest of you,
his men, with a wish in my heart will I tell a tale;
for the wine bids me, befooling wine, which sets one,
even though he be right wise, to singing and laugh-
ing softly, and makes him stand up and dance, aye,
‘and brings forth a word which were better unspoken.
Still, since Ihave once spoken out, I will hide nothing.
Would that J were young and my strength firm as
                                                      67

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_078>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 469-496
 when we made ready our ambush, and Jed it beneath
 the walls of Troy. The leaders were Odysseus and
 Menelaus, son of Atreus, and with them I was third
 in command ;for so had they ordered it themselves.
 Now when we had come to the city and the steep
 wall, round about the town in the thick brushwood
 among the reeds and swamp-land we lay, crouching
 beneath our arms, and night came on, foul, when the
 North Wind had fallen, and frosty, and snow came
 down on us from above, covering us like rime, bitter
 cold, and ice formed upon our shields. Now all the
 rest had cloaks and tunics, and slept in peace, with
 their shields covering their shoulders, but I, when I
 set out, had left my cloak behind with my comrades
 in my folly, for I did not think that even 8 Jshould
 be cold, and had come with my shield alone and my
 bright kilt! But when it was the third watch of
the night, and the stars had turned thefr course,
then I spoke to Odysseus, who was near me, nudging
im with my elbow 5and he atraightway gave ca
    itSon of Lacrtes, sprong fron Zeus, Odysseus οὗ
many devices, lo now, no longer shall’ I be among
the living. Nay, the cold is killing me, for Ihave
no cloak. Some god beguiled me to wear my tunic
only, and now there is no more escape.’
    So I spoke, and he then devised this plan in his
heart, such ἃ man was he both to plan and to fight;
and speaking in a low voice he said to me: ‘Be
silent now, lest another of the Achaeans hear thee.’
    “With this he raised his head upon his elbow, and
spoke, saying: ‘Hear me, friends;a dream from the
gods came to me in my sleep. Lo, we have come
ery far from the ships, and I would that there were
 δ Others regard the word (uaasbare equivalenttoχυγάν.
                                                    69

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_080>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 497-525
  ‘one to bear word to Agamemnon, son of Atreus,
  shepherd of the host, in the hope that he might bid
  ‘more men to come from the ships.”
     “So he spoke, and ‘Thoas, son of Andraemon,
  sprang up quickly, and from him flung his purple
  cloak, and set out to ran to the ships. ‘Then in his
 garment Igladly lay, and golden-throned Dawn ap-
 peared. Would that I were young as then, and my
 strength os firm; then would one of the swincherds
 in the farmstead give me a cloak both from kindness
 and from respect for abrave warrior. But as it is
 ‘they scorn me, since I have foul raiment about me,
     To him then, swincherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say: “Old man, the tale thou hast told
 is a good one, nor hast thou thus far spoken aught
 amiss or unproftably. Wherefore thou shalt lack
 neither clothing nor aught else that a sore-tried
 suppliant should receive, when he mects one—for
 this night at least; but in the morning thou shalt
shake about thee those rags of thine. For not many
cloaks are here or changes of tunics to put on, but
each man has one alone, But when the degr son of
Odysseus comes, he will himself give thee a cloak
and a tunic as raiment, and will send thee whither-
soever thy heart and spirit bid thee go.”
    So saying, he sprang up and placed a bed for
Odysseus near the fire, and cast upon it skins of
sheep and goats. There Odysseus lay down, and
the swineherd threw over him a great thick cloak,
which he kept at hand for a change of clothing
whenever a terrible storm should arise.
    So there Odysseus slept, and beside him slept the
young men, But the swineherd liked not a bed in
that place, thet he should lay him down away from
                                                    nm

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_082>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 526-533
the boars; so he made ready to go outside, And
Odysseus was glad that he took such care of his
‘master's substance while he was afar. First Eumacus
fing his sharp sword over his strong shoulders, and
then put about him a cloak, very thick, to keep off
the wind; and he picked up the fleece of alarge,
wwell-fatted goat, took a sharp javelin toward off dogs
and men, and went forth to lie down to sleep where
the white-tusked boars slept beneath ahollow rock,
ina place sheltered from the North Wind.




                                                   13

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_084>>>
BOOK      XV

    Bor Pallas Athene went to spacious Lacedaemon
to remind the glorious son of great-hearted Odysseus
of his return, and to hasten his coming. She found
‘Telemachus and the noble son of Nestor lying in
the fore-ball of the palace of glorious Menelaus.
Now Nestor's son was overcome with soft sleep, but
sweet sleep did not hold Telemachus, butall through
the immortal night anxious thoughts for his father
Κορὲ im wakefl, "And fashing-eyed Athene stood
near him, and sai
    “Telemachus, thou dost not well to wander longer
far from thy home, leaving behind thee thy wealth
and men in thy house so insolent, lest they divide
and devour all thy possessions, and thou shalt have
gone on a fruitless journey. Nay, rouse with all
speed Menelaus, good at the war-cry, to send thee
‘on thy way, that thou mayest find thy noble mother
still in her home. For now her father and her
brothers bid her wed Eurymachus, for he surpasses
all the wooers in his presents, and has increased his
gifts of wooing. Beware lest she carry forth from
thy halls some treasure against thy will. For thou
knowest what sort of ἃ spirit there is in a woman's
breast;she is fain to increase the house of the man
who weds her, but of her former children and of the
lord of her youth she takes no thought, when once he
                                                  15

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_086>>>
THE ΟΡ155ΕΥ, XV. 23-49
  1» dead, and asks no longer concerning them. Nay,
  fo, and thyself put all thypossessions in the charge
  ‘of whatsoever one of the handmaids seems to thee
  the best, until the gods shall show thee a noble bride.
 ‘And another thing willItell thee, and do thou lay it
  to heart. The best men of the wooers lie in wait for
 thee of set purpose in the strait between Ithaca and
 rugged Samos, eager to slay thee before thou comest
 to thy native land, But methinks this shall not be;
 cere that shall the carth cover many a one of the
 ‘wooers that devour thy substance. But do thou keep
 thy well-built ship far from the islands, and sail by
 night as well as by day, and that one of the im-
 ‘mortals, who keeps and guards thee, will send a fair
 breeze in thy wake, But when thou hast reached
 the nearest shore of Ithaca, send thy ship and all
 thy comrades on to the city, but thyself go first. of
 all to the swineherd who keeps thy swine, and withal
 has a kindly heart toward thee. There do thou spend
 the night, and bid him to goto the city to bear word
 to wise Penclope that she has thee safe, and thou art
 come from Pylos.”
     So saying, she departed to high Olympus. But
Teiemachus woke tite son of Nestor outuf sweet
sleep, rousing him with a touch of his heel, and
spoke to him, saying:
     “Awake, Peisistratus, son ofNestor; bring up thy
fiery-hoofed? horses, and yoke them beneath the car,
that we may speed on our way.””
     Then Peisistratus, son of Nestor, answered, and
said: “Telemachus, in no wise may we drive through
   2The word is obscare but is now generally connested with
the   rootμα, but“be eager.”
fs untenable,                Tho old
                      th meaning      exymology ” {μόνον
                                 “‘solid-hoofed    is willτὄνυξ)
                                                            -pre-
ferred by some.
                                                              n

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_088>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 50-79
 the dark night, how eager soever for our journey;
 and soonit wil be dawn, Waitthen, until the warrior
 son of Atreus, Menelaus, famed for his spear, shall
 bring gifts and set them on the car, and shall send
 us on our way with kindly words of farewell. For a
 guest remembers all his days the host who shews
 hhim kindness.”
    So he spoke, and presently came golden-throned
 Dawn. Up to them then came Menelaus, good at
 the war-ery, rising from his couch from beside fair-
 tressed Helen, And when the prince, the dear son
 of Odysseus, saw him, he made haste to put about
 im his bright taney and to fing over his mighty
shoulders a greatclonk,and went forth. ‘Then Tele-
‘machus, the dear son of divine Odysseus, came lup to
 Menelaus, and addressed him, saying:
   “Menelaus, son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader
of hosts,sendme back now at length to my dear native
land, for now my heart is eager to return home.”
   Then Menelaus, good at the war-cry, answered
him: Telemachus, I verily shall not hold thee here
along time, when thou    arteager to return. Nay, I
should blame another, who, as host, loves overmuch
or hates overmuch; better is due measure in all things.
"Tis equal wrong if a man speed on a guest who is
loath to go, and if he keep back one that is eager to
be gone. ‘One should make welcome the present
guest, and send forth him that would go. But stay,
tN T bring fair gifts:and put them onthycar, and
thine own eyes behold them, and till Tid the women
make ready a meal in the halls of the abundant store
that is within, It is a double boon—honour and
  ory it brings, and profit withal—that the traveller
should dine before he goes forth over the wide and
                                                     19

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_090>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV, 80-107
 boundless earth. And if thou art fain to journey
 through Hellas and mid- Argos, be ft so, to the en
 that I may myself gowith thee, and I will yoke for
 thee horses and leadthee to the eties of men. Nor
 will any one send us away empty-handed, but will
   jive us some one thing at least to bear with us, a
 {fir brazen tripod or cauldron, or & pair of males,
 or a golden cup.”
     Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Menelaus,
 son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader of hosts,




 store that was within. Up to him then came Bteo-
 neus, son of Boethois, just risen from his bed, for he
 welt not far from him. Him Menelaus,          good at the
 war-ery, bade kindle a fire and roast of the flesh;
 and he heard, and obeyed. And Menelaus himself
 went down to his vaulted? treasure-chamber, not
 alone, for with him went Helen and Megepenthes.
 But when they came to the place where his treasures
 were stored, the son of Atreus took a two-handled
 cup, and bade hisson Megapenthes bear a mixing
 bowl of silver. And Helen came up to the chests in
 which were her richly-broidered robes, that she her.
self hadwrought. One of these Helen, thé beauti-
 ful lady, lifted out and bore away, the one that was
                   2Powsibly “ fragrant.”
                                                        a

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_092>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 108-133
 fairest in its broideries, and the amplest. It shone
 like a star, and lay beneath all the rest. ‘Then they
 went forth through the house until they came to
 Telemachus; and fair-haired Menelaus spoke to him,
 and said :
     “Telemachus, may Zeus, the loud-thundering lord
 of Here, verily bringtopass for thee thy return, even
asthy heart desires. And of all the gifts that lie
 stored as treasures in my house, I will give thee that
 ‘one which is fairest and costliest. I will give thee a
 well-wrought mixing-bowl. It is all of silver, and
 with gold are the rims thereof gilded, the work of
 Hephaestus; and the warrior Phaedimus, king of
 the Sidonians, gave it me, when his house sheltered
 me as I came thither; and now I am minded to give
 ito thee.”
     So saying, the warrior, son of Atreus, placed the
 two-handled    cupin his hands. And the strong Mega-
 penthes rough the bright mixingbowl of silver and
 set it before him, and fair-cheeked Helen came up
 with the robe in her hands, and spoke, and addressed
 him:
     “Lo, 1 too give thee this gift, dear child, « remem-
 brance of the hands of Helen, against the day of thy
longed-for marriage, for thy ‘bride to wear it. But
until then let it lie in thy halls in the keeping of thy
dear mother. And for thyself I wish that with joy
{houmayestreach thy well-built houseand thy naive
Tan
     So saying, she placed itin his hands, and he took
it gladly. And the prince Peisistratus took the gifts,
and laid them in the box of the chariot, and gazed
at them all wondering in his heart. Then fair-haired
 Menelaus led them    tothe house, andthe two sat down
                                                      83

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_094>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 134-161
  on chairs and high seats. And a handmaid brought
  water for the hands in ἃ fair pitcher of gold, and
  poured it over a silver basin for them to wash, and
  beside them drew up a polished table. And the grave
  housewife brought and set before them bread, and
  therewith meats in abundance, granting freely of her
 store. And hard by the son of Boethotis carved the
 meat, and divided the portions, and      the,sonof
   jlorious Menelaus poured the wine. So they put
   rth ther hands to the good cheer lying ready be-
 fore them, But when theyhad put from them the
 desire of food and drink, then Telemachus and the
 gloriousson of Nestor yoked the horses and mounted
 the inlaid car, and drove forth from the gateway and
 the echoing portico. After them went the son of
 Atreus, fair-baired Menclaus, bearing in his right
 hhand honey-hearted wine in a cup of gold, that they
 ‘might pour libations ere they set out. And he took
 his stand before the horses, and pledged the youths,
‘andsaid:
    «Fare yewell, young men, and bear greeting to
 Nestor, shepherd ofthe host, for verlly Ne was,kind
 ἃς a father to me, while we sons of the Achaeans
 warred in the land of Troy.”
    ‘Then wiseTelemachus answered him : “Aye, verily,
 king, fostered of Zevs, to him will we tell al this
‘on our coming, asthou dost bid, And I would that,
when I return to Ithaca, 1 might as surely find
Odysseus in his house, to tell him how I met with
every kindness at thy hands, ere I departed and
bring with me treasures many and goodly.”
    Even as he spoke a bird flew by on the right,an
‘eagle, bearing in his talons ἃ great, white goose, a
                                                 ὃς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_096>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 162-188
  tame fowl from the yard, and men and women
  followed shouting. But the eagle drew near to them,
 and darted offtothe right in front of the horses;
 and they were glad as they saw it, and the hearts in
 the breasts of all were cheered. And among them
  Peisistratus, son of Nestor, was first tospeak:
      “Consider, Menelaus, fostered of Zeus, leader of
 hosts, whether it was for us two that the god showed
 this sign, or for thyself.”
       o he spoke, and Menelaus, dear to Ares, pondered
 how he might with understanding interpret the sign
aright But long-robed Helen took the word from
 him, and said:
     “Hear me, and I will prophesy as the immortals
putitinto my heart, and as I think it will be brought
to pass. Even as this eagle came from the mountain,
where are his kin, and’ where he was born, and
snatched up the goose that was bred inthe house,
even 80 shall Odysseus return to his home after
many toils and many wanderings, and shall take
vengeance; or even now he is at home, and is
sowing the seeds of evil for all the wooers.”
     ‘Then again wise Telemachus answered her; “So
may Zeus grant, the loud-thundering lord of Here;
then will Leven there ever pray to thee,asto a god.”
     He spoke, and touched the two horses with the
lash, and they sped swiftly toward the plain, coursing
eagerly through the city. So all day long th
shook the yoke they bore about their necks. Ani
the sun set, and all the ways grew dark. And they
came to Pherae, to the house of Diocles, son of
Ortilochus, whom Alpheus begot. There they spent
the night, and before them he set the entertainment
due to strangers,
                                                     87

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_098>>>
HE ODYSSEY, XV. 189-214
 theyAs yoked
        soonasearly Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
              the horses, andmounted the inl ταν
 and drove forth from the gateway and the echoing
 portico. Then Peisistratus touched the horses with
 the whip to start them, and nothing loath the pair
 sped onward, and soon thereafter they reached the
 steep citadel of Pylos. ‘Then Telemachus spoke to
 the son of Nestor, saying:
    “Son of Nestor, wilt thou now make me a promise,
and fulfl it,asI bid? Friends from of old we call
ourselves by reason of our fathers’ friendship, and we
are moreover of the same age, and this journey shall
yet more stablish us in oneness of heart, Lead me
not past my ship, O thou fostered of Zeus, but leave
me there, lest that old man keep me in’ his house
against my will, fain to show me kindness, whereas
Tmust needs hasten home,
   So he spoke, and the son of Nestor took counsel
with his heart, how he might duly give the promise
and fulflit. And,   ashepondered, thisseemed tohim
the better course.’ He turned his horses to the swift
ship and the shore of the sea, and took out, and
set in the stern oftheship the beautiful gifts, the
raiment and gold, which Menelaus gave him. “And
he urged on Telemachus, and addressed him with
winged words :
   “Make haste now to go on board, and bid all thy
comrades to do likewise, before I reach home and
bring the old man word. For well [ know this in
mind and heart, so masterful is his spirit he will not
let theego, but will himself come hither tobid thee
to his house; and, I tell thee, he will not go back
without thees for very wroth will he be, desplte of
                                                   89

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_100>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 215-237
   So saying, he drove his horses with beautiful
mane back to the city of the Pylians, and speedily
reached the palace. And Teleniachus called to his
men, and gave command to them, saying:
    “Set all the gear in order, men, in the black ship,
and let us go on board ourselves, that we may speed
on our way.”
   'So he spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed; and at’ once they went on board, and sat
down upon the benches.
    He verily was busied thus, and was praying and
offering sacrifice to Athene by the stem of the ship,
‘when there drew nigh to hin a man from a far land,
one that was fleeing out of Argos because he had
slain a man; and he was a scer. By linenge he
‘was sprung from Melampus, who of old dwelt in
Pylos, mother of flocks, a rich man and one that had
a very wealthy house among the Pylians, but had
afterward come to a land of strangers, fleeing from
his country and from great-hearted Neleus, the lord-
liestofliving men, who for a full year had kept much
wealth from him by force. Now Melampus mean-
while lay bound with bitter bonds in the halls of
Phylacus, suffering grievous pains because of the
daughter of Neleus, and the terrible blindness of
                the goddess, the Erinys, who brings
houses to ruin,? had laid’ upon him. 'Howbeit he
‘escaped his fate, and drove offthe deep-lowing kine
from Phylace to Pylos, and avenged the cruel deed
upon godlike Neleus, and brought the maiden
of Molampus. ‘Thelattor,however, won hisfreedom through
bis skill as « diviner, and drove offthe kine
                                           toPylon. te
thon avenged himmelf on Neleus, and gave Pero to be tbe
                                                    οι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_102>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 138-265
  home to be his own brother's wife. For himself, he
  went to the land of other men, to horse-pasturing
  Argos, for there it was appointed him to dwell, bear-
  ing sway over many Argives. There he wedded a
  wife and built hima high-roofed house, and begot
  Antiphates and Mantius, two stalwart sons. Now
 Antiphates begot great-hearted Otcles, and Otcles
 ‘Amphiaraus, the rouser of the host, whom Zeus, who
 bears the aegis, and Apollo heartily loved with all
 manner of love. Yet he did not reach the threshold
 of old age, but died in Thebe, because of a wornan's
     ts. To him were born sons, Alemaeon and Amphi-
 ochus, And Mantius on his part begot Polypheides
 and Cleitus, Now Cleitus golden-throned Dawn
 snatched away by reason of his beauty, that he
 might dwell with the immortals; but ‘of Poly-
 pheides, high of heart, Apollo made a seer, far the
 best of mortals, after that Amphiaraus was dead.
 He removed to Hyperesia, having waxed wroth with
his father, and there he dwelt and prophesied to
all men.
     His son it was, Theoclymenus by name, who now
came and stood by Telemachus; and he found him
pouring libations and praying by his swift, black
Ship, and he spoke, and addressed him with winged
wor
     “Friend, since I find thee making burnt-offering
in this place,Ibeseech thee by thine offerings and by
the god, aye, and by thine own life and the lives of
thycomrades who follow thee, tell me traly what I
ask, and hide it not. Who art thou among men, and
from whenee? Where is thy city, and where thy
    rents?”
     ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: “Then
                                                    93

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_104>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 266-291
  verily, stranger, will I frankly tell thee all, Of
  Ithaca Tam by birth, and my father is Odysseus,
 as sure as ever? such a one there was; but now
 he has perished by a pitiful fate. Therefore have I
 now taken my comrades and a black ship, and am
 come to seck tidings of my father, that has long
 been gone.”
        ‘Then godlike Theoclymenus answered him: “Even
 so have I, too, fled from my country, for that I slew
 ἃ mm, one of mine own kin, And many brethren
 and kinsmen of his there are in horse-pasturing
 ‘Argos, and mightily do they bear sway over the
 ‘Achaeans. It is to shun death and black fate at
 ‘their hands that 1 flee, for, I ween, it is my lot to
 be a wanderer among men. 'But do thou set me on
 thy ship, since in my flight I have made prayer to
 thee, lest they utterly slay me; for methinks they
 are in pursuit.”
       And wise Telemachus answered him: “Then
 will Tin no wise thrust thee from my shapely ship,
since thou art eager to come. Nay, follow with us,
and in our home shalt thou find entertainment such
as we have.”
      So saying, he took from him his spearof bronze,
      laid ita length on the deck of thecurved ship,
‘and himself went aboard the seafaring ship. ‘Then
he sat down in the stern and made ‘Theoclymenus
sit down beside him; and his men loosed the stern-
cables, And Telemachus called to his men and bade
them lay hold of the tackling, and they quickly
obeyed. The mast of fir they raised and sct in the
hollow socket, and made it fast with fore-stays, and
hauled up the white sail with twisted thongs of ox-
               render ‘if ever” 5Βααἰ is not here conditional;
                                                             95

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_106>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 292-315
 hide. And flashing-eyed Athene sent them a favour-
 able wind, blowing strongly through the sky, that,
 speeding swiftly, the ship might accomplish her way
 over the salt water of the sea. So they fared past
 Crouni and Chaleis, with its beautiful streams.
    Now the sun set and all the ways grew dark. And
 the ship drew near to Pheae, sped by the wind of
 Zeus, and on past goodly Elis, where the Epeans
 hold’ sway. From thence again he steered for the
 sharp isles, pondering whether he should escape
 death or be taken.
    But the two, Odysseus and the goodly swineherd,
 were supping in the hut, and with them supped the
 other men. But when they had put from them the
 desire of food and drink, Odysseus spoke among
 them, making trial of the swineherd to see whether
 he would still entertain him with kindly care and
 bid him remain there at the farmstead, or send
 him forth to the city:
    “Hearken now, Eumaeus, and all ye other men.
 In the morning I am minded to go forth to the city.
 to beg, that I may not be the ruin of thee and of
 thy men. Now then, give me good counsel, and
 fend with me a trusty guide to lead me thither;
 but through the city will I wander by myself per-
 force, inthe hope that one haply wil give me a cup
 of water and a loaf. Aye, and Σ would go to the
 house of godlike Odysseus and bear tidings to the
 wise Penelope, and join the company of the insolent
 ‘wooers, if perchance they may give me a meal, since
                                                mamin

‘mow!uncertain. ‘Tho lin (except fizκαλλρέεθον)
                                            5.)
 Homerie Hymn to Apollo 426.                 sei isfoundinte
                                                           91

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_108>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 316-345
 they have good cheer in abundance. Straightway
might I do good service among them in all that they
 would. For I will tell thee, and do thou give heed
and hearken. By the favour of Hermes, the mes-
senger, who lends grace and glory to all men's work,
in the business of serving no man beside can vie
with me, in piling well a fire, in splitting dry faggots,
ἴα carving and roasting meat, and in pouring wine
       all things in which meaner men serve the
noble.”
    Then deeply moved didst thou speak to him,
swineherd Eumacus: “Ah me, stranger, why has
such a thought come into thy mind? Verily thou
art fain utterly to perish there, if thou wouldest
indeed enter the throng of the wooers, whose wan-
tonnes and violence reach the iron heaven, Not
such as thou are their serving men; nay, they that
serve them are young men, well clad in cloaks and
tunics, and ever are their heads and bright faces
sleek and polished tables are laden with bread,
and meat, and wine, Nay, abide here; there is
none that is vexed by thy presence, not I, nor any
other of the men that are with me.’ But when the
dear son of Odysseus comes, he will himself clothe
thee in a cloak and a tunic as raiment, and will
send thee whithersoever thy heart and spirit bid
thee go.”
   ‘Then the much-enduting,   goodly Odysseusanswered
him: “Would, Eumaens,     thatthou mightest be asdear
to father Zeus as thou art to me, for that thou hast
made me cease from wandering and from grievous
hardships. ‘Than roaming naught else is more evil
for mortals; yet for their cursed belly's sake men
endure evil woes, when wandering and sorrow and
                                                       99

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_110>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 346-374
 pain come upon them, But now, since thou keepest
 me here and biddest me await’ thy master, come,
 tell me τῇ the mother of godlike Odysseus, and of
 the father, whom, when he wentforth,he left behind
 him on the threshold of old age. Are they haply
_still living beneath the rays of the sun? or are they
 ‘now dead and in the house of Hades?”
    Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
 him: “Then verily, stranger, will I frankly tell thee.
 Laertes still lives, but ever prays to Zeus that his
 life may-waste away from his linbs within bis halls,
 For wondrously does he grieve for his son that is
     ne, and for the wise lady, his wedded wife, whose
   jeath troubled him most of all, and brought him. to
 untimely old age. But she died of grief for her
 glorious son by a miserable death, as I would that no
 man may die who dwells here as my friend and does,
 me kindness. So long as she lived, though it was in
 sorrow, it was ever apleasure to me to ask and en-
 guize after her, for she herself had brought me up
 with long-robed Ctimene, her noble daughter, whom
 she bore as her youngest child, With her was 1
 broughtup,and the mother honoured me little less
 than her own children. But when we both reached
 the longed-for prime of youth they sent her to Same
 to wed, and got themselves countless bridal gifts;
 butasfor me, my lady clad me in a cloak and tunic,
 right goodly raiment, and gave me sandals for my
 feet and sent me forth to the field; but in her heart
 she loved me the more. But now I lack all this,
 ‘though for my own part the blessed gods make to
   xrosper the work to which I give heed. ‘Therefrom
 Rave I esten and drunk, and given to reverend
 strangers. But from my mistress may hear naught
                                                    ror

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_112>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 375-402
 pleasant, whether word or deed, for a plague has
 fallen upon the house, even overweening men. Yet
 greatly do servants long to speak before their mis-
 tress, and learn of all, and to eat and drink, and
 thereafter to carry off somewhat also to the fields,
 such things asever make the heart of ἃ servant to
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Lo now, surely when thou wast but a child,
swineherd Bumaeus, thou didst wander far from thy
 country and thy parents. But come now, tell me
 this, and declare it truly. Was a broad-wayed city
of men sacked, wherein thy father and honoured
mother dwelt? Οἵ, when thou wast alone with thy
sheep or cattle, did foemen take thee in their ships
and bear thee for sale to the house of this thy
master, who paid for thee a goodly price?”
    ‘Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
him: “Stranger, since thou dost ask and question
‘me of this, hearken now in silence, and take thy joy,
and drink thy wine,  asthou sittest here. These nights
  τὸ wondrous long. ‘There is time for sleep, and there
 is time to take joy in hearing tales; thou necdest
not lay thee down till it be time; there is weariness
even in too much sleep. As for the rest, if any man’s
heart and spirit bid him, let him go forth and sleep,
and at daybreak let him eat, and follow our master’s
swine, But we two will drink and feast in the hut,
and will take delight each in the other's grievous
‘woes, as we recall them to mind. For in after time
ἃ man finds joy even in woes, whosoever has suffered
‘much, and wandered much. But this will I tell thee,
of which thou dost ask and enquire,
                                                   103

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_114>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 403-431
      “There is an isle called Syria, if haply thou hast
  heard thereof, above Ortygia, where are the turning-
  places  of the’ sun, Itisnot so very thickly settled,
  but it is a good land, rich in herds, rich in flocks,
  fall of wine, abounding in wheat.’ Famine never
  comes into the land, nor does any hateful sickness
  besides fall on wretched mortals; but when the tribes
  ‘of men grow old throughout the city, Apollo, of the
  silver bow, comes with Artemis, and assails them
  with his gentle shafts, and slays them. In that
  isle are two cities, and all the land is divided
  between them, and over both ruled as king my
  father, Cesus, on of Ormenus,« man like to the
  immortals.
     “Thither eame Phoenicians, men famed for their
  ships, greedy knaves, bringing countless trinkets in
  their black ship. Now there was in my father's house
  ἃ Phoenician woman, comely and tall, and skilled in
  glorious handiwork, ’Her the wily Phoenicians be-
  guiled. First, as she was washing clothes, one of
  ‘them lay with her in love by the hollow ship; for
  this beguiles the minds of women, even though one
  beupright. Then he asked her who she was, and
  whence she came, and she straightway shewed him
  the high-roofed home of my father, and said τ
     “Out of Sidon, rich in bronze, I declare that I
  come, and I am the daughter of Arybas, to whom
  ‘wealth flowed in streams. But Taphian pirates seized
  me, as I was coming from the fields, and brought me
  hither, and gold me tothe house of yonder man, and
  he paid for me ἃ           rice.”
     “PThon the ouekwh ed iain with her in seret
"answered her: ‘Wouldest thou then return again with
  us to thy home, that thou mayest see the high-roofed
                                                    105

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_116>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 432-460
 house of thy father and mother, and see them too?
 For of a truth they yet live, and are accounted rich.’
     ‘Then the woman answered him, and sud: This
 may well be, if you sailors will pledge yourselves by
 fn oath, that youwil bring me aafelyhome’               σου"
     So she spoke, and they all gave an oath thereto,
 as she bade them. But when they had sworn and
 made an end of the oath, the woman again spoke
 among them, and made answer:
    «Be silent now, and let no one of your company
 speak to me, if he ‘meets me in the street or hapl
 at the well, Test some one go to the palace and tell
 the old king, and he wax suspicious and bind me with
grievous bonds, and devise death for you. Nay, keep
my words inmind, and speed the barterofyour wares.
 But, when your ship is laden with goods, let      αmes-
sage come quickly to me at the palace; for I will
also bring whatever gold comes under my hand. Aye,
and I would gladly give another thing for my passage,
‘There is a child of my noble? master, whose nurse I
am in the palace, such a cunning child, who ever
runs abroad with’ me. Him would I bring on board,
and he would fetch you a vast price, wherever you
might take him for sile among men of strange
speech.”
   So saying, she departed to the fair palace. And
they remained there in our land a full year, and got
by trade much substance in their hollow ship. But
when their hollow ship was laden for their return,
then they sent a messenger to bear tidings to the
woman. There came a man, well versed in guile,
to my father's house with a necklace of gold, and
with amber beads was it strang between, ‘This
    4 Or, omanother interpretation of dersimply “my.”
                                                      107

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_118>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 461-489
 the maidens in the hall and my honoured mother
 were handling, and were gazing on it, and were
 offering him their price; but he nodded to the
 ‘woman in silence. Then verily when he had nodded
 to her, he went his way to the hollow ship, but she
 took me by the hand, and led me forth from the
 hhouse. Now in the fore-hall of the palace she found
the cups and tables of the banqueters, who waited
 upon my father. ‘They had gone forth to the council
and the people's place of debate, but she quickly hid
three goblets in her bosom, and bore them away’; and
I followed in my heedlessness. Then the sun set, and
all the ways grew dark. And we made haste and
came to the goodly harbour, where was the swift ship
of the Phoenicians. Then’ they embarked, putting
Doth of us on board as well, and sailed over the
watery ways, and Zeus sent them a favourable wind.
Forsixdays we sailed, night and day alike; but when
Zeus, son of Cronos, brought upon us the seventh
day, then Artemis, the archer, smote the woman, and
she fell with a thud into the hold, as sea’ bird
plunges. Her they cast forth to be x prey to seals
End fishes, but T'was left, my heart sore stricken.
Now the wind, as it bore them, and the wave,
Drought them to Ithaca, where Laertes bought me
with his wealth. ‘Thus it was that my eyes beheld
‘this land.”
    ‘To him then Zeus-born Odysseus made answer,
and said: “Eumaeus, of a truth thou hast deeply
stirred the heart in my breast in telling all this tale
of the sorrow thou hast bore at heart, Yet verily.
in thy case Zeus has given good side by side with
the evil, since after all thy toil thou hast come to
the house of a kindly man, who gives thee food and
                                                    109

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_120>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 490-518
 drink, and that with kindness, and thou livest well;
 while as for me, it is while wandering through the
 many cities of men that I am come hither.”
    Thus they spoke to one another, and then lay
 down to sleep, for no long time, but for a little; for
 soon eame fair-throned Dawn. "But the comrades of
 Telemachus, drawing near the shore, furled the sail,
 and took down the mast quickly, and rowed the ship
 to her anchorage with their oars. ‘Then they cast out
 the mooring-stones and made fast the stern cables,
 and themselves went forth upon the shore of the sea,
and made ready their meal and mixed the flaming
 wine. But when they had put from them the desire
of food and drink, among them wise 'eleinachus was
the first to speak, saying:
    “Do you now row the black ship to the city, but
 I will visit the fields and the herdsmen, and at even-
ing will come to the city when I hdve looked ofer
my lands. And in the morning’ will set before you,
as wages for your journey, a good feastofflesh’and
sweet wine.”
    Then godlike ‘Theoclymenus answered him:
«Whither shall I go, dear child? To whose house
shall 1 come of those who rule in rocky Ithaca? Or
shall I go straight to thy mother’s house and thine?””
   Then wise ‘Telemachus answered him: “ Were
things otherwise, I should bid thee go even to our
house, for there is in no wise lack of entertainment
for strangers, but it would be worse for thyself, since
I shall be away, and my mother will not see thee.
For she does not often appear before the wooers in
the house, but apart from them weaves at her loom
in an upper chamber. But 1 will tell thee of another
man to whom thou mayest go, Eurymeehus, glorious
                                                   arr

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_122>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 519-546
 son of wise Polybus, whom now the men of Ithaca
 ook upon as on a god. For he is by far the bestman,
 and is most eagertomarry my mother and to hare
 the honour of Odysseus.        Nevertheless Olympian
 Zeus, who dwells in the sky, knows this, whether
 or not before marriage he will fulfil for them the
 evil day.”
    Even as he spoke ἃ bird flew forth upon the right,
 a hawk; the swift messenger of Apollo. In his talons
 he held   adove, and was plucking her and shedding
 the feathers down on the ground midway between.
 the ship and Telemachus himself, Then Theoely-
 menus called him apart from his companions, and
 clasped his hand, and spoke, and addressed him’:
    “Telemachus, surely not without a god's warrant
 bas this bird flown forth upon our right, for I knew,
as I looked upon him, that he was a bird of omen.
‘Than yours is no other house in the land of Ithaca
more kingly;nay, ye are ever supreme.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered him again: “Ah,
stranger, 1 would that this word of thine might be
fulfilled.’ Then shouldest thou straightway know of
Kindness and many a gift from me, 50 that one that
met thee would call thee blessed.”
   ‘Therewith he spoke to Peiracus, his trusty com-
rade: “Peiraeus,   sonofClytins, itis thou thatinother
matters art wont to hearken to me above all my
comrades, who went with me to Pylos; so now do
thou, I pray thee, take this stranger and give him
kindly welcome in thy house, and show him honour
until T come.”
   Then Peiraeus, the famous spearman, answered
him: “Telemachts, though thou shouldest stay here
Jong, I will entertain him, and he shall have no lack
of what is due to strangers.”                      ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_124>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 547-557
       So saying, he went on board the ship, and bade
    his comrades themselves to embark and to loose the
    stern cables. So they went on board straightway,
    and sat down upon the benches. But Telemachus
    bound beneath his fect his fair sandals, and took his,
    mighty spear, tipped with sharp bronze, from the
    deck of the ship, Then the men loosed the ster
    cables, and thrusting off sailed to the city, as Tele-
    machus bade, the dear son of divine Odysseus. But
    his feet bore him swiftly on, as he strode forward,
    until he reached the farmistead where were his count
Ι   less swine, among whom slept the worthy swineherd
    with ἃ heart loyal to his masters.


᾿
|

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_126>>>
BOOK       XVI

   Meaxwax the two in the hut, Odysseus and the
‘goodly swincherd, had kindled afire, andwere making
ready their breakfast at dawn, and had sent forth
the herdsmen with the droves of swine; but around
‘Telemachus the baying hounds fawned, and barked
not as he drew near. And goodly Odysseus noted
the fawning of the hounds, and the sound of foot-
steps fell upon his ears; and straightway he spoke
to Bumaeus winged words
   “Bumaeus, surely some comrade of thine will be
coming, oFat least some one thou knowest, for the
hounds’ do not bark, but fawn about him, and I
hear the sound of footsteps.”
   Not yet was the word fully uttered, when his own,
dear son stood in the doorway. In amazement αἱ
sprang the swineherd, and from his hands the vessels,
fell with which he was busied as he mixed the flaming
wine. And he went to meet his lord, and kissed his,
hhead and both his beautiful eyes and his two hands,
and a big tear fell from him, Απᾶ as a loving father
greets his own dear son, who comes in the tenth
year from a distant Iand—his only son and well-
beloved, for whose sake he has borne much sorrow-
even so did the goodly swineherd then clasp in his
arms godlike Telemachus, and kiss him all over
as one escaped from death; and with wailing he
addressed him with winged words :
                                                  m7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_128>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 23-49
   “Thou art come, Telemachus, sweet light of my
eyes. I thought I should never see thee more after
thou hadst gone in thy ship to Pylos. But come,
enter in, dear child, that I may delight my heart
with looking at thee here in my house, who art
newly come from other lands. For thou dost not
often visit the farm and the herdsmen, but abidest
in the town; 80, I ween, has it seemed good to thy
heart, to look upon the destructive throng of the
vwooers.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: ‘So shall
it be, father. It is for thy sake that Iam come
hither, to see thee with my eyes, and to hear thee
tell whether my mother still abides in the halls, or
whether by now some other man has wedded her,
and the couch of Odysseus lies haply in want of
bedding, covered with foul spider-webs.”
   ‘Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
his “Aye, verily, she abides with steadfast heart
    thy halls, and ever sorrowfully for her the nights
and the days wane as she weeps.”
   So saying, he took from him the spear of bronze,
‘and Telemachus went in and passed over the stone
threshold. As he drew near, his father, Odysseus,
rose from his seat and gave him place, but Telemachus
on his part checked him, and said:
   ‘Be seated, stranger, and we shall find aseat else-
where in our farmstead. There is a man here who
will set us one.
   So he spoke, and Odysseus went back and sat
down again, and for Telemachus the swincherd
strewed green brushwood beneath anda fleece above
it, and there the dear son of Odysseus sat down,
Then the swineherd set before them platters of roast
                                                   119

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_130>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 50-77
    meats, which they had left at their meal the day
    before, and quickly heaped up bread in baskets, and
    mixed in a bow! of ivy wood honey-sweet wine, and
    himself sat down over against divine Odysseus. So
    they put forth their hands to the good cheer lying
    ready before them. But when they had put from
    them the desire of food and drink, Telemachus spoke
    to the        goodly swincherd, and said’:
       “Father, from whence did this stranger come to
    thee? How did sailors bring him to Ithaca? Who
    did they declare themselves to be? For nowise,
|   methinks, did he come hither on foot.”
       ‘To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
    answer, and say: “Then verily, my child, I will tell
    thee all the truth, From broad Crete he declares,
    that hehas birth, and he saysthat he has wandered
    roaming through many cities of mortals; so has a
    god spun for him this lot. But now he has run
    ‘away from a ship of the Thesprotians and come to
    my farmstead, and I shall put him in thy hands,
    Do what thou wilt He declares himself thy
    ‘suppliant.”
       ‘Then again wise Telemachus answered him:
    “Bumaeus, verily this word which thou hast uttered
    stings me tothe heart. For how am I to welcome
    this stranger in my house? Iam myself but young,
    nor have I yet trust in my might to defend me
    against a man, when one waxes wroth without ἃ
    cause. And as for my mother, the heart in her breast
    wavers this way and that, whether to abide here
    with me and keep the house, respecting the bed of
    her husband and the voice of the people, or to go
    now with him whosoever is best of the Achaeans that
    ‘woo her in the halls, and offers the most gifts of
                                                     rar

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_132>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 78-106
 wooing. But verily, as regards this stranger, now
that he has come tothy house, I will clothe him in a
 cloak and tunic, fair raiment, and will give him a
 two-edged sword, and sandals for his feet, and send
himwhithersoever his heart       and spiritbid himgo. Or,
if thou wilt, do thou keep him here atthe farmstead,
‘and care for him, and raiment will I send hither and
all his food to eat, that he be not the rain of thee
and of thymen, ‘But thither will T not suffer him
 to go,tojoin the company of the wooers, for they are
over-full of wanton insolenee, lest they mock him,
‘and dread grief come upon me. And to achieve
 aught is hard for one man among many, how mighty
 soever he be, for verily they are far stronger.”
    Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
 swered him :“Friend, since surely it is right for me
 to make answer—verily ye rend my heart, as I hear
 your words, such wantonness you say the wooers
 evise in the halls in despite of thee, so goodly ἃ
‘man, Tell me, art thou willingly thus oppressed ?Or
do the people throughout the land hate thee, follow-
ing the voice of agod? Or hast thou cause to blame
thy brothers, in whose fighting a man trusts even if a
great strife arise. Would that with my present
temper I were as young as thou, either the son of
blameless Odysseus, or Odysseus himself; straight
 way then might some stranger cut my head from of
my neck, if Idid not prove myself the bane of them
Ail  witen I had come to the halls of Odysseus, son of
Laertes. But if they should overwhelm me by their
numbers, aloneasIwas, far rather would I die, slain in
  2Line 10) (ἔλθοι ἀλητεύων: ἔτι γὰρ καὶ ἐχπίον αἶσα, “might
‘come from his wanderings; for there isstilroom for hope")
‘has been omitted in translating as ruinous tothe sense,
                                                         123

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_134>>>
;
                THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 107-135
     my own halls,thanbehold continually these shameful
     deeds, strangers mishandled, and men dragging the
     handmaidens in shameful fashion through the fair
     halls, and wine drawn to waste, and men devouring
    my bread all heedlessly, without limit, with no end
     to the business.”
        ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: Then
     verily, stranger, I will frankly tell thee all, Neither
    do the people at large bear me any grudge or
    hatred, nor have I cause to blame brothers, in whose
    fighting © man trusts, even if a great strife arise.
    For in this wise has the son of Cronos made our
    house torun in but     asingle line. As his onlyson did
    Arceisius beget Laertes, as his only son again did his
    father beget Odysseus, and Odysseus begot me as
    his only son, and left me in his halls, and had no
    joy of me. Therefore itis that foes past counting
    fre now in the house; for all the princes who hol
    sway over the islands—Dolichium, and Same, and
    ‘wooded Zacynthus—and those who lordit over rocky
    Ithaca, all these woo my mother and lay waste my
    house. And she neither refuses the hateful marriage,
    nor is she able to make an end; but they with
    feasting consume my substance, and will ere long
    bring me, too, to ruin. Yet these things verily lie
    on the knees of the gods. But, father, do thou go
    with speed, and tell constant Penelope that she has
    me safe, and I am come from Pylos, But I will
    abide here, and do thou come back ‘hither, when
    thou hast told thy tale to her alone; but of the rest
    of the Achaeans let no one learn it, for many there
    are who contrive evil against me.”
       To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
                                                        τς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_136>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 136-162
answer, and say: “I see, I give heed; this thou bid-
dest one with understanding. But come now, tell
me this, and declare it truly; whether I shall go on
the self-same way with tidings to Laertes also,
wretched man, who for a time, though grieving
sorely for Odysseus, was still wont to oversee the
fields, andwould eat and drink with the slaves in the



    Then wise Telemachus answered him: "Tis the
sadder ;but none the less we will let him be, despite
our δοτέον ; for iin any wise all things might be had
bymortals for the wishing, we should choose frst of
ail the day of my father's return, No, do thou come
back, when thou hast given thy message, and wander
not over the fields in search of Laertes; but bid my
mother with all speed send forth her handmaid,
the housewife, secretly, for she might bear word to
the old man.”
    With this he roused the swineherd, and he took
his sandals in his hends and bound them beneath his
feet: and went forth to the city. Nor was Athene
unaware that the swineherd Eumaeus was gone
from the farmstead, but she drew near in the likeness
ofawoman, comely and tall,and skilled in glorious
handiwork, "And she stood over against thedoor of
the hut, shewing herself  toOdysseus, but ‘felemachus
did not see her before him, oF notice her; for in no
wise do the gods appear in manifest presence to all.
But Odysseas saw her, and the hounds, and they
                                                  137

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_138>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 163-189
 barked not, but with whining slunk in fear to the
 further side of the farmstead. ‘Then she made a sign
 with her brows, and goodly Odysseus perceived it,
 and went forth from the hall,past the great wall of
 the court, and stood before her, and Athene spoke
 to him, saying:
    «Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, even now do thou reveal thy word to
 thy son, and ‘hide it not, that when you two have
 planned death and fute for the wooers, you may go
 to the famous city. Nor will I myself be long away
 from you, for I am eager for the battle.”
    With this, Athene touched him with her golden
wand. A well-washed cloak and a tunie she first of
all cast about his breast, and she inereased his stature
and his youthful bloom. Gnce more he grew dark
of colour, and his cheeks filled out, and dark grew
the beard about his chin. Then, when she had
‘wrought thus, she departed, but Odysseus went into
the hut. And his dear sonmarvelled,     and,seized with
fear, tumed his eyes aside, lest it, should be a god.
And he spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
   Of other sort.thou seemest to me now, stranger,
than awhile ego, and other are the garments thou
hast on, and thy colour is no more the same. Verily
thou art a god, one of those who hold broad heaven.
Nay then, be gracious, that we may offer to thee ac-
ceptable sacrifices and golden gifts, finely wrought
but do thou spare us.”
   ‘Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
swered him: Be sure I am no god; why dost thou
liken me to the immortals? Nay, I am thy father,
for whose sake thou dost with groaning endure many
griefs, and submittest to the violence of men.”
                                                     129

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_140>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 190-219
     So saying, he kissed his son, and from his cheeks
  let fall a tear to earth, but before he ever stead-
  fastly held them back. Howbeit Telemachus—for
  he did not yet believe that it,was his father—agai
 answered, and spoke to him, saying:
     “Thou verily art not my father Odysseus, but
 some god beguiles me, that I may weep and groan
 yet more. For nowise could ἃ mortal man contrive
 this by his own wit, unless a god were himself to
 come to him, and easily by his will make him young
 or old. For verily but now thou wast an old man
 and meanly clad, whereas now thou art like the gods,
 who hold broad heaven.”
     ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: Telemachus, it beseems thee not to wonder
 ‘overmuch that thy father is in the house, or to be
 amazed. For thou mayest be sure no other Odysseus
 will ever come hither; but I here, I, even such as
 thou seest me, after sufferings and many wanderings,
‘am comein the twentieth yeartomy native land. But
 this, thou mastknow, is the work of Athene, driver of
 the ‘spoil, who makes me such as she will—for she
has the power—now like a beggar, and now again like
   young man, and one wearing fait raiment about his
body. Easyitisfor the gods, who hold broad heaven,
both to glorify ἃ mortal man and to abase him.”
    So saying, he sat down, and Telemachus, flinging
his arms about his noble father, wept and shed tears,
and in the hearts of both arose a longing for lamen-
tation, And they wailed aloud more vehemently than.
birds, sea-engles, or vultures with crooked talons,
whose young the country-folk have taken from their
nest before they were fledged;even so piteously did
they let tears fall from beneath their brows, And
                                                  131

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_142>>>
THE QDYSSEY, XVI. 220-247
 now would the light of the sun have gone down upon
 their weeping, had not Telemachus spoken to his
  father suddenly :
    “In what manner of ship, dear father, have sailors
 now brought thee hithertoIthaca? Who did they
 declare themselves to be? For nowise, methinks,
 didst thon come hi
    ‘And the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus answered
him: “Then verily, my child, I will tell thee all the
truth. The Phacacians brought me, men famed for
their ships, who send other men too on their way,
whosoever comes to them. And they brought me as
 I slept in a swift ship over the sea, and set me down
in Ithaca, and gave me glorious gifts, stores of bronze
and gold and woven raiment. ‘These treasures, by
the favour of the gods, are lying in caves. And
now I am come hither at the bidding of Athene,
that we may take counsel about the slaying of our
foes, Come now, count me the wooers, and tell their
tale; that I may know how many they are and what
‘manner of men, and that I may ponder in my noble
heart and decide whether we two shall be able to
maintain our cause against them alone without others,
or whether we shall also seek out others.”
    Then wise Telémachus answered him: “Father,
of a truth I have ever heard of thy great fame, that
thou wast a warrior in strength of hand and in wise
counsel, but this'thou sayest is too great; amazement
holds me. It could not be that two men should fight
‘against many men and mighty. For of the wooers
there are not ten alone, or twice ten, but full many
more, Hereaswe are shalt thou straightway learn
their number. From Dulichium there are two and
                                                   133

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_144>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 248-276
fifty chosen youths, and six serving men attend them;
from Same came four and twenty inenj from Zacyn-
thus there are twenty youths of the Achaeans; and
from Ithaca itself twelve men, all of them the noblest,
and with them is Medon, the herald, and the divine
minstrel, and two squires skilled in carving meats.
If we shall meet all these within the halls, bitter,I
            vith bane will be thy coming to avenge
            Nay, do thou conser, ἐξ thou cant, δες


 heed and henrken to my words, and consider whether
for us two Athene, with father Zeus, will be enough,
or whether 1 shall bethink me of some other
helper.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Good,
thou mayest be sure, are these two helpers whom
thou dost mention, though high in the clonds do
they abide, and they rule over all men alike and
the immortal gods.
  Thenthemuch-enduring,     goodly Odysseusanswered:
“Not long of a surety will those two hold aloof from
the mighty fray, when between the wooers and us in
my halls the might of Ares is put to the test. But
for the present, do thou go at daybreak to thy house
and join the company of the haughty wooers. As
for me, the swineherd will lead me later on to the
city in the likeness of awoeful and aged beggar.
And if they. shall put despite on me in the house,
let the heart in thy breast endure while I am evil
entreated, even if they drag me by the feet through
the house to the door, or hurl at me snd smite me;
                                                 135

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_146>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 277-301
 still do thou endure to behold it. Thou shalt indeed
 Did them cease their folly, seeking to dissuade them
 with gentle words; yet in no wise will they hearken
 to thee, for verily their day ofdoom is at hand. And
 another thing will [ tell thee, and do thou lay it to
 heart. When Athene, rich in counsel, shall put ft in
 my mind, I wil nod to thee with my head; and do
 thou thereupon, when thou notest it, take all the
 ‘weapons of war that lie in thy halls, and lay them
 away one and all in the seeret place of the lofty
 store-room. And as for the wooers, when they miss
 the ams and question thee, do thou beguile them
swith gentle words, saying:
    «Out of the smoke have I Jaid them,} since the
are no longer like those which of old Odysseus 1
behind him when he went forth to Troy, but are all
efouled so farasthe breath of the fire has reached
them. And furthermore this greater fear has the
son of Cronos put in my heart, lest haply, when
heated with wine, you may set a quarrel afoot among
you and wound one another, and so bring shame on
Your feast and on your wooing. For of itself does
the iron draw a man to it”
   “But for us two alone do thou leave behind two
swords and two spears, and two ox-hide shields for
us tograsp, that we may rush upon them and seize
them while as for the wooers, Pallas Athene and
Zeus, the counsellor, will beguile them. And an-
other thing will T tell thee, and do thou lay it to
heart. If in truth thou art my son and of our blood,
then ‘let no one hear that Odysseus is at home;
κι᾽36weapons
     The Homerichanginghou δ adthomno patarally
                                      chimney, andthe
                                                 became wallsgry with
toot romthefre which buroed            inthocentre οἱ th hallwith
                                                                137

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_148>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 302-332
  neither Jet Laertes know it, nor the swincherd, nor
 any of the household, nor Penelope herself; but by
 ourselves thou and ἢ will learn the temper of the
 women. Aye, and we will likewise make trial of
 many aone of the serving men, and see where           any
 of them honours us two and fears us at heart, and
 who recks not of us and scorns thee, ἃ man s0
     oly.”
 "ten his glorious soa answered him, and said:
 «Father, my spirit, methinks, thou shalt verily eome
 to know hereatter, for no slackness of will possesses
 me. ButIthinknot that thisplan willbe a gain to us
 both, andso Ibid thee takethought. Longtime shalt
 thou vainly go about, making trial of each man as
 thou visitest the farms, while in thy halls those others
 at their ease are wasting thy substance in insolent
 wise, and there ig no sparing. Yet verily, as for the
 women, I do bid thee learn who among them dis
 honour thee, and who are guiltless, But of the men
in the farmsteads T would not that we should make
trial, but that we should deal therewith hereafter, it
in very trath thou knowest some sign from Zeus,
who bears the aegis.”
    Thus they spoke to one another, but meanwhile
into Ithaca put the well-built ship that brought Tele-
‘machus and all his comrades from Pylos; and they,
when they had come into the deep harbour, drew
the black ship up on the shore, while proud 6
bore forth their armour and straightway earried the
deauteous gifts to the house of Clytius. But they
sentaherald forth to the house of Odysseus to bear
word to wise Penelope that Telemachus was at the
farm, and had bidden the ship to sail on to the eity,
lest the noble queen might grow anxious and let
                                                      139

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_150>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 333-358
 round tears fall. So the two met, the herald and
 the goodly swineherd, on the selfsame errand, to
 bear tidings to the Indy. And when they reached
 the palace of the godlike king, the herald spoke out
 in the midst of the handmaids, and said: “Even now,
 queen, thy son has come back from Pylos.””
    Bat the swincherd came close to Penelope and
 told her all that her dear son had bidden him say.
 And when he had fully told all that had been com-
 manded him, he went his way to the swine and left
‘the courtyard and the hall.
    But the wooers were dismayed and downenst in
spirit, and forth they went from the hall past the
    eat wall of the court, and there before the gates
they sat down, ‘Then among them Eurymachus, son
of Polybus, was the first to speak:
    “My friends, verily a great deed has been inso-
Jently brought’ to pass byTelemacins, even, this
journey, and we deemed that he would never see it
accomplished, But come, let us launch     ablack ship,
the best we have, and let us get together seamen as
rowers that they may straightway bear tidings to
those others speedily to return home.”
    Not yet was the word fully uttered when Amphi-
nomus, turing in his place, saw ship in the deep
harbour and men furling the sail, and with oars in
their hands. ‘Then, breaking into'a merry laugh, he
spoke among his comrades:
   “Let us not be sending a message any more, for
here they are at home. Fither some god told them
of this, or they themselves caught sight of the ship
of Telemachus as she sailed by, but could not eatch
her.”
   ‘So he spoke, and they rose up and went to the
                                                  τῶν

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_152>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 359-386
  shore of the sea. Swiftly the men drew up the
  black ship on the shore, and proud squires bore
  forth their armour. Themselves meanwhile went
  all together to the place of assembly, and none other
  would they suffer to sit with them, either of the
  young men or the old. Then among them spoke
  ‘Antinous, son of Bupeithes:
     “Lo, now, see how the gods have delivered this
  man from destruction. Day by day watehtien sat
  upon the windy heights, watch ever following watch,
  and at set of gun we never spent a night upon the
 shore, but sailing over the deep in our swift ship we
  waited for the bright Dawn, lying in wait for Tele-
 machus, that we might take him and slay the man
 himself; howbeit meanwhile some god has brought
 him home. But, on our part,let us here devise for him
 ‘a woeful death, evenfor Telemachus, and let him not
 escape from out our hands, for I deem that while
 he lives this work of ours will not prosper. For he
is himself shrewd in counsel and in wisdom, and the
 people nowise show us favour any more. Nay, come,
 before he gathers the Achaeans to the place of as-
sembly—for methinks he will in no wise be slow to
act, but will be full of wrath, and rising up will d
clare among them all how that we contrived against
him utter destruction, but did not catch him; and
they will not praise us when they hear of our evil
deeds, Beware, then, lest they work us some harm
and drive us out from our country, and we come to
the land of strangers. Nay, let us act first, and seize
hhim in the field far from the city, or on the road
‘and his substance let us ourselves keep, and his
wealth, dividing them fairly among us; though the
house we would give to his mother to possess, and to
                                                   143

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_154>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 387-414
 him who weds her. ᾿Howbeit if this plan does not
 please you, but you choose rather that he should live
 and keep all the wealth of his fathers, let us not
 continue to devour his store of pleasant things as we
 gather together here, but let each man from his own
 ball woo her with his gifts and seek to win her; and
she then would wed him who offers most, and. who
‘comes as her fated lord.
    80 he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence.
‘Then Amphinomus addressed their assembly, and
spoke among them. He was the glorious son of the
Prince Nisus, son of Aretias, and he led the wooers
who came from Dulichium, rich in whent and in
    ass, and above all the others he pleased Penel
irith bus words, for he bad an understanding heer
He it was who with good intent addressed their
assembly, and spoke among them:
    “Friends, I surely would not choose to kill Tele~
machus;a dread thing is it to slay one of royal
stock. Nay, let us first seek to lear the will of the
gods. If the oracles of great Zeus approve, I will
myself slay him, and bid all the others do so; but
if the gods turn us from the act, I bid you desist.”
    Thus spoke Amphinomus, and his word was pleas-
ing to them. So they arose straightway and went to
the house of Odysseus, and entering in, sat down on
the polished seats.
    Then the wise Penelope took other counsel, to
show herself to the wooers, overweening in their in-
solence. Forshe had learned of the threatened death
of her son in her halls, for the herald Medon told
her, who had heard their counsel. So she went her
way toward the hall with her handmaids. But when
the fair lady reached the wooers, she stood by the
                                                   145

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_156>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 415-443
 doorpost of the well-built hall, holding before her
 face  hershining veil; and she rebuked Antinous, and
 spoke, and addressed him:
    “Antinous, full of insolence, deviser of evil! and
 yet it is thou, men say, that dost excel among all
of thy years in the land of Ithaca in counsel and
in speech. But thou, it seems, art not such ἃ man,
 Madman! why dost thou devise death and fate for
‘Telemachus, and carest not for suppliants, for whom
Zeus is witness. "Tis an impious thing to plot evil
fone against another. Dost thou not know of the
time when thy futher came to this house a fagi-
tive in terror of the people? For of a truth the
rere   greatly wroth with him beeause he had joined
‘Taphian pirates and harried the Thesprotians, who
were in league with us. Him, then, they were minded
to slay, and take from him his life by violence, and
utterly to devour his great and pleasant livelihood ;
but Odysseus held them back, and stayed them
despite their eagerness. His house it is that thou
consumest: now without atonement, and wooest his
wife, and seckest to slay his son, and on me thou
Dringest   greatdistress. Ney, forbear, I charge thee,
and bid the rest forbear.”
   Then Burymachus, son of Polybus, answered her:
“Daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, be of good
cheer, and let not these things distress thy heart.
‘That man lives not, nor shall live, nor shall ever be
born, who shall lay hands upon thy son Telemachus
while I live and behold the light upon the earth. For
thus willT speak out to thee, and verily it shall be
broughttopass. Quickly shall that man’s black blood
flow forth about my spear; for of a truth me, too,
did Odysseus the sacker of cities often set upon his
                                                   147

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_158>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 444-471
 knees, and put roast meat in my hands, and hold to
 my lips red wine. Therefore Telemachus is far the
 ‘earest of all men to me, and I bid him have no fear
 of death, at least from ‘the wooers; but from the
 gods can no man avoid it.”
    Thus he spoke to cheer her, but against that son
 he was himself plotting death. So she went up
 to her bright upper chamber and then bewailed
 Odysseus, her dear husband, until fashing-eyed
 Athene cast sweet sleep upon’ her eyelids.
    Bat at evening the goodly swineherd eame back
toOdysseus and hisson, and they were busily making
 ready their supper, and had slain a boar of a year old.
 ‘Then Athene came close to Odysseus, son of Lnertes,
 and smote him with her wand, and again made him
 an old man; and mean raiment, she put about his
 body, lest the swincherd might look upon him and
know him, and might go to bear tidings      toconstant
 Penelope, and not hold the secret fast in his heart.
    ‘Now Telemachus spoke first to the swincherd, and
said: “Thou hast come, goodly Eumaeus. What news
is there in the city? Have the proud wooers by this
time come home from their ambush, or are they still
watching for me where they were, to take me on my
homeward way?
    To hima, then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
answer and say’: “I was not minded to go about the
city, asking and enquiting of this; my heart bade
me with all speed to come back hither when I had
given my message. But there joined me a swift
messenger from thy companions, a herald, who was
the first to tell the news to thy mother. "And this
farther thing I know, for I saw it with my eyes. I
‘was now above the city, as I went on my way, where
                                                    149

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_160>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 472-481
  the hill of Hermes is, when I saw a swift ship patting
  into our harbour, and there were many men in her,
  ‘and she was laden with shields and double-pointed
  spears. And I thought it was they, but I have no
  knowledge.”
     So he spoke, and the strong and mighty Telema-
  chus smiled and with his eyes he glameed at his
ὁ father, but shunned the swineherd’s eye.
     ‘And when they had ceased from their labour and
  had made ready the meal, they fell to feasting, nor
  did their hearts lack aught of the equal feast. But
  when they had pat from them the desire of food
  and drink, they bethought them of rest, and tool
  the gift of sleep.




                                                    ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_162>>>
BOOK      XVII
  As soon asearlyDawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
‘Telemachus, the dear ton of divine Odysseus, Gound
beneath his feet his fair sandals and took his mighty
spear, that fitted his grasp, bi      to the city; and
he spoke to his swinehierd, saying:
   ‘Father, I verily am going to the city, that my
mother may see me, for, methinks, she will not cease
from woeful wailing and tearful’ lamentation until
she sees my very self. But    tothee I give this charge.
Lead this wretched stranger to the city, that there
he may beg his food, and whoso will shall give him a
loaf and acap of water. For my part, I can in no
wise burden myself with all men, seeing that I have
grief at heart. But if the stranger is sore angered
at this, it will be the worse for him. I verily love to
speak the truth.”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
        “Friend, be sure I am not myself fain to be
Fett here. Fora beggar itis better to beg hisfood
in the town than in the fields, and whoso will shal
give it_me, For I am no more of anageto remai
at the farmstead, so as to obey im all things the com-
mand of an overseer. Nay, go thy way; this man
that thou biddest will lead ine as soon’es I have
warmed myself at the fire,andthe sun has grown
hot. For miserably poor ate these garments which
I wear, and I fear lest the morning frost may over-
come me; and ye say it is far to the city.””
                                                     153

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_164>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 26-54
    So he spoke, and Telemachus passed out through
 the farmstead with rapid strides, and was sowing the
seeds of evil for the wooers. But when he came to
 the stately house he set his spear in place, leaning
it against ἃ tall pillar, and himself went in and
 crossed the threshold of stone.
    Him the nurse Eurycleia was far the first to see,
as she was spreading fleeces on the richly-wrought
chairs, With a burst of tears she came straight
toward him, and round about them gathered the
other maids of Odysseus of the steadfast heart, and
they kissed his head and shoulders in loving welcome.
    ‘Then forth from her chamber came wise Penelope,
like unto Artemis or golden Aphrodite, and bursting
into tears she flung her arms about her dear son, and
kissed his head and both his beautiful eyes; and
with wailing she spoke to him winged words:
    “Thou art come, Telemachus, sweet light of my
eyes I thought I should never see thee more after
   ἰοὺ hadst gone in thy shiptoPylos—seeretly, and
in my despite, to seek tidings of thy dear father,
Come, then, tell me what sight thou hadst of him.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her: “My mother,
stir not lamentation, I pray thee, nor rouse the heart
in my breast, seeing that I am escaped from utter
destruction. "Nay, bathe thyself, and take clean
raiment for thy body, and then, going to thy upper
chamber with thy handmaids, vow to all the gods
that thou wilt offer hecatombs that bring fulfilment,
in the hope that Zeus may some day bring deeds of
requital to pass. But I will go to the place of as-
sembly that I may bidto our house ἃ stranger who
followed me from Pylos on my way hither. Him I
sent forward with my godlike comrades, and I bade
                                                   155

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_166>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 55-81
Peiraeus take him home and give him kindly wel-
come, and show him honour until I should come,
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged.t
‘Then she bathed and took clean raiment for her
body, and vowed to all the gods that she would offer
heeatombs that bring fulfilment, in the hope that
Zeus would some day bring deeds of requital to
=But Telemachus thereafter went forth through the
bil wits Me mpenr ἴα lo Gur, sad with bu went
two swift hounds. And wondrous was the grace that
ἀγλοπο    ομεὰ cate,
τὰthronged,
     πα apie    eat ional
                     Bound    α tae
                           about him pearls ππατνοίϊοὰ
                                     theproad  waters
             speaking him fair, but pondering evil in
the deep of their hearts.   Howbeit he avoided the
great throng of these men, but where Mentor sat,
and Antiphus, and Halitherses, who were friends of
his father's house from of old, there he went and sat
down, and they'questioned him of each thing. ‘Then
Peiracus, the famous spearman, drew near, leading
the stranger through the city to the place of as-
sembly; and Telemachus did not long turn away
fren, fie guest δὲ wank up Yo bin, hon Petree
was the frst to speak, saying:
   “Telemachus, quickly send women to my house,
that 1may send to thee the gits which Meneaus
"Then ‘wiseTelemachus answered him: 4 Peifaeus,
we know not how these things will be. If the proud
overs shall secretly slay me in my hall, and divide
ἀπιοηᾳ thom all εἰς lols af ang lather, ψουϊὰ
that thou shouldest keep and enjoy these things
thyself rather than one of these. But if I shall sow
               Ὁ That is, she made no reply.
                                                 157

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_168>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 82-110
 for them the seeds of deatl: umd fate, then do, thou
 bring all to my house lady, as shall be ld.”
    So saying, he led the sore-tried stranger to the
 house. Now when they had come tothe stately house
 they laid their cloaks’on the chairs and high seats,
 and went into the polished baths and bathed. And
 when the maids had bathed them and anointed them
 with ofl, and had cast about them fleecy cloaks and
 tunies, they came forth from the baths and ext down
 upon the chairs. ‘Then a handmaid brought water
 forthe hands in a fr pitcher of gold, and poured it
 over asilver basin for thein to wash, and beside them
 drew up a polished table. And the grave housewife
 Drought and set before them bread, and therewith
 meats in abundance, granting freely of her store.
 ‘And his mother sat over against Telemachus by the
 Goor-post of the hall, leaning against a chair and
 spinning fine threads of yarn, So they put forth
 their hands to the good cheer lying ready before
 them. But when they had put from them the desire
 of food and drink, the wise Penelope spoke first
 among, them:                a
    “Telemachus, Itruly will go to my upper chamber
and ley me on tay bed)  which hes become for me ἃ
 bed of wailing, ever wet with my tears, since the
day when Odysseus set forth with the sons of Atreus
for Ilios. But thou tookest no care, before the proud
‘wooers come into this house, to tell me plainly of
the, retam of thy ‘father, if haply thou heardest
aught.”
   ‘And wise Telemachus answered her: Then
verily, mother, I will tell thee all the trath. We
went to Pylos’ and to Nestor, the shepherd of the
people, and he received me in his lofty house and
                                                   159

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_170>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. x13-141
gave me kindly welcome, as a father might his own
son who after a long time had newly come from afar:
 even so kindly he tended me with his glorious sons.
 Yet of Odysseus of the steadfast heart, whether
living or dead, he said he had heard naught from
any man on earth. But he sent me on my way with
horses and jointed car to Menclaus, son of Atreus,
the famous spearman, There I saw Argive Helen,
for whose sake Argives and ‘Trojans toiled much by
 the will of the gods. And straightway Menelaus,
good at the war-cry, asked me in quest of what I
had come to goodly Lacedacmon; and I told him
all the truth. Then he made answer to me, and
    “Out upon them! for verily in the bed of ἃ man
of valiant lieart were they fain to lie, who are them.
selves cravens. Even as when in the thicket-lair of
ἃ mighty lion a hind has laid to sleep her new-born
suckling fawns, and roams over the mountain slopes
and grassy vales seeking pasture, and then the lion
comes to hislair and upon the two lets loose «
eruel doom, so will Odysseus let loose a cruel doom
upon these men. I would, O father Zeus, and Athene,
and Apollo, that in such strength,aswhen once   infair-
stablished Lesbos he rose up and wrestled a match
with Philomeleides and threw him mightily, and all
the Achacans rejoiced, even in such strength Odysseus
might come among the wooers; then should they all
find swift destruction and bitterness in their wooing.
But in this matter of which thou dost ask and entreat
me, verily I will not swerve aside to speak of other
things, nor will I deceive thee; but of all that the
unerring old man of the sea told me, not one thing
                                                   x61

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_172>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 142-168
  will I hide from thee or conceal, He said that he
 had seen Odysseus in an island in grievous.distress,
 in the halls of the nymph Calypso, who keeps him
 there perforce. And he cannot come to his own
 native land, for he has at hand no ships with oars,
 and no comrades, to send him on his way over the
 broad back of the sea.”
     “So spoke Menelaus, son of Atreus, the famous
 spearman. Now when I had made an end of all this
 T'set out for home, and the immortals gave me ἃ
 fair wind and brought me quickly to my dear native
 Jand.
     So he spoke, and stirred the heart in her breast.
 ‘Then among them spoke also the godlike Theoety-
 menus, sayin
     “ Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Lacrtes, he
 traly hs no clear understanding; but do thou heaven
 to my words, for with certain knowledge will I pro
phesy to thee, and will hide naught. Be my witness
 Zeus above all gods, and this hospitable board and the
hearth of noble Odysseus to which I am come, that
verily Odysseus is even now in his native land, resting
or moving, learning of these evil deeds, and he is
sowing the seeds of evil for all the wooers. So plain
‘a bird of omen did I mark as I sat on the benched
ship, and I declared it to Telemachus.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Ah, stranger,
I would that this word of thine might be fulfilled,
Then shouldest thon straightway know of kindness
and many a gift from me, so that one who met thee
‘would call thee blessed.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. And the wooers
meanwhile in front of the palace of Odysseus were
making merry, throwing the discus and the javelin
                                                  163

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_174>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 169-196
  in a levelled place, as their wont was, in insolence of
 heart. But when it was the hour for dinner, and the
 flocks came in from all sides from the fields, and the
 men led them who were wont to lead, then Medon,
 why of all the heralds was most to their liking and
 was ever present at their feasts, spoke to them,
 saying:
    “Youths, now that you have all made glad your
 hearts with sport, come to the house that we may
 make readyafeast; for it is no bad thing to take
 ‘one’s dinner in season.
    So he spoke, and they rose up and went, and
 hearkened to his word. And when they had come
 to the stately house they laid their cloaks on the
 chairs arid high seats, and men fell to slaying great
 sheep and fat goats, aye, and fated swine, and a
 heifer of the herd, and so made ready the meal.
 But Odysseus andthegoodly swineherd were making
 haste to go from the field to the city; and the
swineherd, a leader of men, spoke first, and said :
    “Stranger, since thou art eager to go to the city
to-day, a3 my master bade—though for myself 1
would rather have thee left, here to keep the farm-
stead; but I reverence and fear him, lest hereafter
he chide me, and hard are the rebukes of masters—
come now, let us go. The day is far spent, and soon
thou wilt find it colder toward evening.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “I see, 1 give heed; this thou biddest one
with understanding. Come, let us go, and be thou
my guide all the way. But give me a staff to lean
upon, if thou hast one eut anywhere, for verily ye
said that the way was treacherous.”
                                                     165

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_176>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 197-223
      He spoke, and flung about his shoulders his miser-
  able wallet, full of holes, slung by a twisted cord,
 and Eumaeits gave him a stafftohis liking. So they
  two set forth, and the dogs and the herdsmen stayed
 Debind to guard the farmstead ;but the swineherd
  Jed his master to the city in the likeness of a woeful
 and aged beggar, leaning on a staff; and miserable
 ‘was the raiment that he wore about his body.
      But when, asthey wentalong the rugged path, they
 were near the city, and had come to a well-wrought,
 fair-flowing fountain, wherefrom the townsfolk drew
 water—this Ithacus had made, and Neritus, and
 Polyctor, and around was a grove of poplars, that
 grow by the waters, circling it on all sides, and down
 the cold water flowed from the rock above, and on
 the top was built an altar to the nymphs where all
 passers-by made offerings—there Melantheus, son of
 Dolius, met them as he was driving his she-goats, the
 best that were in all the herds, to make a feast for
 the wooers; and two herdsmen followed with him.
 As he saw them, he spoke and addressed them, and
reviled them in terrible and unseemly words, and
 stirred the heart of Odysseus:
     «Lo, now, in very truth the vile leads the vile.
As ever, the god is Bringing like and like together.
Whither, pray, art thou leading this filthy wretch,}
thou miserable swineherd, this nuisance of a beggar
to mar our feasts? He is a man to stand and rub
his shoulders on many doorposts, begging for scraps,
not for swords or cauldrons.? If thou wouldest give
me this fellow to keep my farmstead,tosweep out
   4 Tho meaning of tho word is uncertain, It is often
rendered " glatianous Ἢ
   μεν ἴοι such gifta as were ordinarily given to princely
                                                       167

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_178>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 224-249
 bythe drinking
           pens and tocarry young shoots to the kids, then
                    whey he might get himself « sturdy
  thigh, Butsince he has learned only deedsofevil,
 he will not care to busy himself with work, but is
 minded rather to go skulking through the land, that
 by begging he may feed his insatiate belly. But I
 ‘will speak out to thee, and this word shall verily be
 brought to pass. If he comes to the palace of divine
 ‘Odysseus, many a footstool, hurled about his head by
 the hands of those that are men, shall be broken on
 his ribs? as he is pelted through the house.”
      So he spoke, and as he passed he kicked Odysseus
 on the hip in his folly, yet he did not drive him
 from the path, buthe stood steadfast. And Odysseus
 pondered whetherhe should leap upon him and take
 his life with his staff, or seize him round about,? and
 Jifthim up, and dash his head upon the ground. Yet
 he endured, and stayed him from his purpose. And
 the swineherd looked the man in the face, and re-
 uked him, and lifted up hishands, and prayed aloud :
     “Nymphs of the fountain, daughters of Zeus, if
‘ever Odysseus burned upon your altars pieces of the
 thighs of lamabs or kids, wrapped in rich fat, fal6l for
me this prayer; grant that he, my master, may come
back, and that some god may guide him. ‘Then
 would he scatter all the proud airs which now thou
puttest on in thy insolence, ever roaming about the
city, while evil herdsmen destroy the flock.”
     "Then Mcleathius, the goatherd, answered. him:
“Lo now, how the cur talks, his mind full of mischie
Him will I some day take on a black, benched ship
  2Or, reading πλενρά τ᾽, “shall bang about his head and on
big iba.”
    3 "The only thing certain about this obscure word seers to
be the preposition
                                                         169

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_180>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 250-277
 far from Ithaca, that he may bring me in much
 wealth, Would that Apollo, of the silver bow, might
 smite Telemachus to-day in the halls, or that he might
 be sain bythe wovers as surely as for Odysseus in
 far land the day of return has been lost.”
    So saying, he left them there, as they walked
 slowly on, but himself strode forward and right
 swiftly came to the palace of the king. Straightway
 he entered in and sat down among the wooers over
against Burymachus, for he loved him best of all.
‘Then by him those that served set portion of meat,
and the grave housewife broughtandset before him
bread, for him to eat. And Odysseus and the goodly
swineherd halted as they drew nigh, and about them
rang the sound of the hollow lyre, for Phemius      was
striking the chords to sing before the wovers, ‘Then
Odysseus clasped the swineherd by the hand, and
said :
    “Bumaeus, surely this is the beautiful house of
Odysseus. Easily might it be known, though seen
among many. There is building upon building, and
the court is built with wall and coping, and the
double gates are well-fenced; no man may scorn
it. And I mark that in the house itselfmany men
are feasting: for the savour of meat arises from it,
and therewith resounds the voice of the lyre, which
the gods have made the companion of the feast.”
    To him then,swineherd Eumacus, didst thou make
answer, and say: Rasly hast thou marked it, fr
in all things thou art ready of wit. But come, let us,
take thought how these things shall be. Either do
thou go first into the stately palace, and gnter the
company of the wooers, and I will’ remain behind
here, oF, if thon wilt, remain thou here and 1 will
                                                  ἀγα

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_182>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII 278-306
 g0 before thee. But do not thou linger long, lest
 some man see thee without and pelt thee or smite
 thee. OF this Ibid thee take thought.”
    Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
 swered him: “TI see, I give heed :this thou biddest
 one with understanding. But go thou before, and I
 will remain behind here} for no whit unused am I to
 blows and peltings. Staunch is my heart, for much
 evil have I suffered amid the waves and in war ;let
 this too be added to what has gone before. But a
 ravening belly may no man hide, an accursed plague
 that brings many evils upon men, Because of it are
 the benched ships also made ready, that bear evil to
 foemen over the unresting sea.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. And a hound
 that lay there raised his head and pricked up his ears,
Argos, the hound of Odysseus, of the steadfast heart,
whom of old he had himself bred, but had no joy of
him, for ere that he went to sacred Ilios. In days
past the young men were wont to take the hound to
hunt the wild goats, and deer, and hares; but now
he lay neglected, his master gone, in the deep dung
οἵ mules and cattle, which lay in heaps before the
doors, till the slaves of Odysseus should take it away
to dung his wide lands. ‘There lay the hound Argos,
fall of vermin; yet even now, when he marked
Odysseus standing near, he wagged his tail and
dropped both his ears, but nearer to his master he
had no longer strength to move. Then Odysseus
 cooked aside and wiped away a tear, easily hiding
from Bumaeus what he did; and straightway he
questioned him, and said
   ‘“Eumacus, verily it is strange that this hound lies
                                                   173

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_184>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 307-333
  here in the dung. He is fine of form, but I do not
  clearly know whether he has speed of foot to match
  this beauty or whether he is merely as table-dogs
  are, which their masters keep for show.”
     ‘To him then, swincherd Eomaeus, didst thou make
 answer and say: “Aye, verily this is the hound of a
 man that has died in a far land. If he were but in
 form and in action such as he was when Odysseus
 left him and went to Troy, thou wouldest soon be
 amazed at seeing his speed and his strength. No
 creature that he started in the depths of the thick
 wood could eseape him, and in tracking too he was
 keen of scent. But now he is in evil plight, and
 hhis master has perished far from his native lund,
 and the heedless women give him no care. Slaves,
 when their masters lose their power, are no longer
 minded thereafter to do honest service: for Zeus,
 whose voice is bome afar, takes away half his worth
 from a man, when the day of slavery comes upon
 hi
    So saying, he entered the stately house and went
 straight to the hall to join the company of the lordly
 wooers. But as for Argos, the fate of black death
seized him straightway when he had seen Odysseus
fn the twentieth year,
    ‘Now as the swineherd came through the hall god-
like Telemachus was far the first to see him, and
quickly with anod he called him to his side, ’And
Eumaeus looked about him and took a stool that
lay near,onwhich the carver was wont to sit when
carving for the wooers the many joints of meat, as
‘they feasted in the hall, This he took and placed at
the table of Telemachus, over against him, and there
                                                   175

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_186>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 334-360
 sat down himself, And n herald took a portion of
 meat and set it before him, and bread from out the
 basket.
    Nigh after him Odysseus entered the palace in the
 likeness of a woeful and aged beggar, leaning on a
staff, and miserable was the raiment that he wore
about his body. He sat down upon the ashen thresh-
old within the doorway, leaning against a post of
 eypress wood, which of old ἃ carpenter had skilfully
planed, and made straight to the line. Then Tele-
machus called the swincherd to him, and, taking a
whole loaf from out the beaatifal basket, and all the
meat his hands could hold in their grasp, spoke to
him, saying:
    «Take, and give this mess toyon stranger, and bid
him go about himself and beg of the wooers one and
all, “Shame is no good comrade for ἃ man thatisin
need.”
    So he spoke, and the swincherd went, when he.
had heard this saying, and coming up to Odysseus
spoke to him winged words:
    “Stranger, Telemachus gives thee these, and bids
thee go about and beg of the wooers one and all.
Shame, he says, s no good thing in a beggar man.”
    ‘Then Odysscus of many wiles answered him, and
said, King Zeus, grant, I pray thee,that Telemachus
may be blest among men, and may have all that his
heart desires.”
    He spoke, and took the mess in both his hands
and set it down there before his feet on his miserable
wallet. Then he ate 80 long as the minstrel sang
in the halls. But when he had dined and the divine
minstrel was ceasing to sing, the wooers broke into
uproar throughout the halls; but Athene drew close
                                                   7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_188>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 361-388
tothe side of Odysseus, son of Laertes, and roused
him to go among the wooers and gather bits of bread,
and learn which of them were righteous and whieh
lawless. Yet even so she was not minded to save
fone of them from ruin, So he set out to begof
every man, beginning on the right, stretching out
his hand on every side, as though he had been long
ἃ beggar. And’they pitied him and gave, and mar-
yelled at him, asking one another who he was and
whence he came.                    :
   Then among them spoke Melanthius, the gost
herd: “Hear me, wooers of the gloricus φυδεή το.
   ring this stranger, for verily 1 have seen ‘him
Fetores Truly it was the swingherd that led him
hither, but of the man himself I know not surely
from whence he declares his birth to be.”
   So he spoke, and Antinous rebuked the swineherd,
saying: “Notorious swineherd, why, pray, didst
thou bring this man to the city? Have we not
vagabonds enough without him, nuisances of beggars
to mar our feasts? Dost thou not think it enough
that they gather here and devour the substance of
thy master, that thou dost bid this fellow too?”
   To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou
make answer, and say: “Antinous, no fair words are
these thou speakest, noble though thou art. Who,
pray, of himself ever seeks out and bids a stranger
from abroad, unless it be one of those that are
masters of some public craft, a prophet, or a healer
of ills, or a builder, aye, or a divine minstrel, who
             cht with’ his song? For these men are
Bidden all over the boundless earth, Yet a beggar
would no man bid to be burden to himself, But
thou art ever harsh above all the wooers to the
                                                   119

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_190>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 389-414
  slaves of Odysseus, and most of all to me; yet 1
  care not, so long as my lady, the constant Penélope,
  lives in the hall, and godlike Telemachus.”
       ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Be silent:
  do not, I bid thee, answer yonder man with many
  words, for Antinous is wont ever in evil wise to pro-
  voke to anger with harsh words, aye, and urges on
  the others too.””
       With this he spoke winged words to Antinous:
  «Antinous, truly thou carest well for me, as a father
 for hisson, seeing that thou biddest me drive yonder
 stranger from the hall with a word of compulsion,
  May the god never bring such a thing to pass. Nay,
 take and give him somewhat: I begrudge it not,
 but rather myself bid thee give. the
 regard not my mother, no, nor any of
                                                 inthisslavesmatter
                                                               that
 are in the house of divine Odysseus. But verily far
 other is the thought in thy breast; for thou art far
 ‘more fain thyself to eat than to give to another.
      Then Antinous answered him, and said: “Tele
 machus, thou braggart, unrestrained in daring, what
‘athing hast thou said! If all the wooers would but
 hand him as much as I, for full three months’ space
 this house would keep him at a distance.”
      So he spoke, and seized the footstool on which he
 was wont to rest his shining feetashe feasted, and
shewed it from beneath the table, where it lay. But
all the rest gave gifts, and filled the wallet with
bread and bits of meat. And now Odysseus was
like to have gone back again to the threshold, and
to have made trial of the Achaeans without cost, but
he, paused by Antinous, and spoke to him, saying :
    "ie, to have tented their generosity with impunity.
‘Others
‘yan about  render, ttt
                     les of
                         in.he
                             accordance
                              bounty ofthe"with Achasnna”
                                                   Homerio arageτος,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_192>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 415-442
      “Friend, give me some gift; thou seemest not in
  my eyes to be the basest of the Achaeans, but rather
  the noblest, for thou art like a king. ‘Therefore it is
  meet that thou shouldest give even a better portion
  of bread than the rest; so would 1 make thy fame
  known all over the boundless earth. For too once
  dwelt in ἃ house of my own among men, ἃ rich man
 ina wealthy house, and full often I gave gifts toa
 wanderer, whosoever he was and with whatsoever
 need he came. Slaves too I had past counting, and
 all other things in abundance whereby men live well
 and are reputed wealthy. But Zeus, son of Cronos,
 Drought all to naught—so, I ween, was his good
 pleasure—who sent me forth with roaming pirates to
 go to Egypt, a far voyage, that I might meet my
 rain; and in the river Aegyptus I moored my curved
 ships. Then verily I bade my trusty comrades to
 remain there by the ships and to guard the ships, and
 Τ sent out scouts to go to places of outlook. But my
 comrades, yieldingtowantonness and led on by their
 own might, straightway set about wasting the fair
 felds of the men of Bgypt; and they eared of the
‘women and little children,     andslew the men; and
the ery came quickly to the city. Then, hearing
the shouting, the people came forth at break of day,
and the whole plain was filled with footmen and
chariots and the flashing of bronze. And Zeus, who
hurls the thunderbolt, cast an evil panic upon my
comrades, and none had courage to take his stand
and face ‘the foe; for evil surrounded us on every
side, So then they slew many of us with the sharp
bronze, and others they led up to their city alive, to
work for them perforce. But they gave me to
ἃ friend who met them to take to Cyprus, even to
                                                    183

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_194>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 443-467
  Dmetor,sonof Iasus, whoruled mightily over Cyprus;
 and fiom, thenee “am I now come hither, sore
 distressed.”
      Then Antinous answered him, and said: “What
    od has brought this bane hither to trouble our feast?
    just stand of yonder in the midst, away from x;
 table, lest thou come presently to a bitter Egypt an
 ἃ bitter Cyprus, seeing that thou art a bold and
 shameless beggar. ‘Thou comest up to every man in
 ‘turn, and they give recklessly; for there is no re-
 straint or seraple in giving freely of another's goods,
 since each man has plenty beside him.”
      "Then Odysseus ofmany wiles drew back, and said
 to him: ‘Lo, now, it seems that thou at least hast
 not wits to match thy beauty. ‘Thou wouldest not
 out of thine own substance give even ἃ grain of salt
 to thy suppliant, thou who now, when sitting at
 another's table, hadst not the heart to take of the
 bread and give me aught. Yet here lies plenty at
 thy hand.”
     "Gohe spoke, and Antinous waxed the more wroth
at heart, and with an angry glance from beneath
 his brows spoke to him winged word
      “Now verily, methinks, thou shalt no more go
forth from the hall in seemalyfashion, since thou dost
even utter words of reviling.”
     So saying,heseized the footstool and flung it, and
struck Odysseus on the base of the right shoulder,
where it joins the back. But he stood firm as a
rock, nor did the missile of Antinous make him reel ;
but he shook his head in silence, pondering evil in
the deep of his heart. ‘Then back tothe threshold
he went ani sat down, and down he laid his well-
filled wallet; and he spoke among the wooers:
                                                     185

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_196>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 468-494
   “Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
may say what the heart in my breast bids me. Veri
there is no pain of heart nor any grief when a man is
smitten while fighting for, his own possessions,
whether for his cattle or for his white sheep ;but
Antinous has smitten me for my wretched belly’s
sake, an accursed plague that brings many evils upon
men. Ah, if for beggars there are gods and avengers,
may the doom of death come upon Antinous before
his marriage.”
   “Then Antinous, son of Bupeithes, answered him




wretched wenderet, “Doomed tan thet thou are
what if haply he be some god come down from
heaven! Aye,and the gods in the guise of    strangers
from afar put on all manner of shapes, and visit the
cities, beholding the violence and the righteousness
of men.”
   So spoke the wooers, but Antinous paid no heed to
their words. And Telemachus nursed in his heart
great grief for the smiting, though he let no tear fall
from his eyelids to the ground; but he shook his
head in silence, pondering evil in the deep of his
heart.
   Howbeit when wise Penelope heard of the man’
being smitten in the hall, she spoke among her
handmaids, and said: “Even so may thine own self
be smitten by the famed archer Apollo.”
    °                                              187

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_198>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 495-524
    And again the housewife Eurynome said toher:
 “Would that falélment might be granted to our
prayers. So should not one of these men come to
the fair-throned Dawn.”
    ‘And wise Penelope answered her: “Nurse, enemies
are they all, for they devise evil. But Antinous more
 than all is like black fate. Some wretched stranger
roams through the house, begging alms of themen, for
‘want compéls him, andail the others filled his wallet
and gave him gifts, but Antinous flung a footstool
and smote him at the base of the right shoulder.”
    So she spoke among her handmaids, sitting in her
‘chamber, while goodly Odysseus was at meat. ‘Then
she called to her the goodly swineherd, and said:
   “Go, goodly Eumaeus, and bid the stranger come
hither, that J may give him greeting, and ask him if
hhaply he has heard ofOdysseus of the steadiast heart,
‘or has seen him with his eyes. He seems like one
‘hat has wandered far.”
   To her, then, swincherd Eumaeus, didst thoumake
answer, and say: “I would, O queen, that the Achae-
ans wotld keep silence, for he speaks such words as
‘would charm thy very soul. Three nights I had him
by me, and three days I kept him in my hut, for to
ime first, he came when he fled by stealth from a ship,
but he had not yet ended the tale of his sufferings.
Bren as when 4 man gates upon ἃ minstrel who
sings to mortals songs of longing that the gods have
‘taught him, and their desire to hear him has no end,
whensoever he sings, even so he charmed me as he
sat in my ball, He says that he is an ancestral friend
of Odysseus, and that he dwells in Crete, where is
the race of Minos. From thence has he now come
on this journey hither, ever suffering woes as he
                                                  189

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_200>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 525-552
 wanders on and on. And he insist that he has
heard tidings of Odysseus, near at hand in the rich
land of the Thesprotians and yet alive; and he is
bringing many treasures to his home.
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: Go, call him
hither, that he may himself tell me to my face. But
as for these men, let them make sportasthey sit in
the doorway'or here in the house, since their hearts
are merry. For their own possessions lie untouched
in their homes, bread and sweet wine, and on these
do their servants feed. But themselves throng our
house day after day, slaying our oxen, and sheep,
and fat goats,andkeep revel and drink’ the flaming
wine recklessly, and havoc is made of all this wealth,
for there is no’ man here such as Odysseus was to
keep ruin from the house. But if Odysseus should
come and return to his native land, straightway
would he with his son take vengeance on these men
for their violent deeds.”
   So she spoke, and Telemachus sneezed loudly, and
all the room round about echoed wondrously. And
Penelope laughed, and straightway spoke to Eu-
‘maeus winged words:
   “Go, pray, call the stranger here before me. Dost
thou not note that my son has sneezed at all my
words. Therefore shall utter death fall upon the
‘wooers one and all, nor shall one of them escape
death and the fates.” And another thing will T tell
thee, and do thou lay it to heart. If I find that
he speaks all things truly, I will clothe him in a
cloak and tunic, fair raiment.”
   So she spoke, and the swineherd went when he
had heard this         saying; and coming up to Odysseus
he spoke to him winged words:
                                                   ἴοι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_202>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 553-580
    “Sir stranger, wise Penelope calls for thee, the
mother of Telemachus, and her heart bids her make
enquiry about her husband, though she has suffered
many woes. And if she finds that thou speakest all
things truly, she will clothe thee ina cloak and
tunic, which’ thou needest most of all. As for thy
food, thou shalt beg it through the land, and feed
thy belly, and whoso will shall give it thee.”
   ‘Then the much-enduring goodly Odysseus answered
him: “Eumaeus, soon will I tell all the truth to the
daughter of Jcarius, wise Penelope. For well do 1
know of Odysseus, and in common have we borne
affliction. But I have fear of this throng of harsh
‘wooers, whose wantonness and violence reach the
fron heaven, For even now, when, as I was going
through the hall doing no evil, this man struck me
and hurt me, neither Telemachus nor any other did
‘aught to ward off the blow. Wherefore now bid
Penelope towaitin the halls, eager though she be,
till set of sun; and then let her ask me ofher bus
band regarding the day of his return, giving me a
seat nearer the fire, for lo, the raiment that I wear is
mean, and this thou knowest of thyself, for to thee
first did I make my prayer.”
   So he spoke, and the swineherd went when he
had heard this saying. And as he passed over the
threshold Penelope said to hit
   “Thou dost not bring him, Eumaeus, What does
the wanderer mean by this?’ Does-he fear some one
beyond measure, or does he ily feel ashamed in the
house? Tis ill for a beggar to feel shame.”
   ‘To her, then, swineherd Eumacus, didst thou
make answer and say: “He speaks rightly, even
as any other man would deem, in secking to shun
                                                     193

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_204>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 581-606
the insolence of overweening men. But he bids
thee to wait till set of sun. And for thyself, too,
it is far more seemly, O queen, to speak to the
stranger alone, and to hear his words.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him : Not without
wisdom is the stranger; he divines how it may be.
There are no mortal men, methinks, who in wanton
ness devise such wicked folly as these.”
    So she spoke, and the goodly swincherd departed
into the throng of the wooers when he had told her
all, And straightway he spoke winged words to
‘Telemachus, holding his head close to him that the
others might not hear:
    “Friend, Iam going forth to guard the swine and
all things there, thy livelihood and mine; but have
thou charge of all things here. Thine own self do
thou keep safe first of all, and let thy mind beware
lest some ill befall thee, for many of the Achacans
are devising evil, whom’ may Zeus utterly destroy
before harm fall’on us
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “So shall
it be, father; go thy way when thou hast supped.
‘And in the morning do thou come and bring goodly
vietims. But all matters here shall be a care to me
and to the immortals.
    So he spoke, and the swineherd sat down again on
the polished chair. But when he had satisfied his
heart with meat and drink, he went hts way to the
swine, and left. the courts and the hall full of ban-
queters. And they were making merry with dance
and song, for evening had now come on.


                                                 195,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_206>>>
BOOK       XVIII

    Now there came up a publie beggar who was
wont to beg through the town of Ithaca, and was
own for δῆ greedy belly, eating. and inking
without end. No strength had he nor might, but
     bulk was big indeed to look upon, Amaeus was
   is name, for this name his honoured mother had
given him at his birth but Irus all the young men
    led him, because he used to run on errands? when
anyone bade him, He eame now, and was for driving
Odysseus from his own house; and he began torevile
him, and spoke winged words
    «Give way, old man, from the doorway, lest: soon
thou be even dragged out by the foot. Dost δ
not see that all men are winking at me, and bid
tne drag thee? Yet for myself Lam ashamed todo
it, Nay, up with thee, lest our quarrel even come
to blows.”
    Then with an angry glance from beneath his
brows Odysseus of many wiles answered him:
“Good fellow, I harm thee not in deed or word,
nor do I begridge that any man should give thee,
though the portion he took up were a large one.
‘This. threshold will hola us both, and thou hast
no need to be jealous for the goods of other folk.
Thou seemest to me to be a vagrant, even as I
am; and as for happy fortune, it is the gods that
  2And jin therefore compared to Iris, the memenger of
Olympus.
                                                   197

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_208>>>
THE ODYSSRY, XVIII. 20-46
 are like to give us that. But with thy fists do not
 provoke me overmuch, lest thou anger me, and, old
 man though I am, I befoul thy breast and lips with
 blood. 80 should 1 have the greater peace to-
morrow, for I deem not that thou shalt return a
second time to the hall of Odysseus, son of Laertes.
    Then, waxing wroth, the vagrant Irus said to hi
“Now see how glibly the filthy wretch talks, like an
old kitchen-wife. But I will devise evil for him,
smiting him left and right, and will scatter on the
ground al the teeth from’his jaws, as though he
 were ἃ swine wasting the cor. Gird thyself now,
that these men, too, may all know our fighting. But
how couldst thou fight with a younger man?”
    Thus on the polished threshold before the lofty
doors they stirred one another's rage right heartily.
‘And the strong and mighty Antinous heard the two,
‘and, breaking into a merry laugh, he spoke among
the wooers:
    “Friends, never before has such a thing come to
pass, that a god has brought sport like this to this
house. Yon stranger and Trus are provoking one
another to blows. Come, let us quickly set them on.
    80 he spoke, and they all sprang up laughing and
gathered about the tattered beggars. And Antinous,
son of Eupeithes, spoke among them, and said:
    «Hear me, ye proud wooers, that I may say some-
what, Here at the fire are goats’ paunches lying,
which we set there for supper, when we had filled
them with fat and blood. Now whichever of the
two wins and proves himself the better man, let him
   ἃ The thought wo are both vagrantes whether either
of us everattains toa pio ation ft rete with the
βοάν, who arbitrarily allot or ef vi 188

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_210>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΥΤΙ. 47-72
 rise and choose for himself which one of these he
will. And farthermore he shall always feast with
 us, nor will we suffer any other beggar to join our
 company and beg of us.
     So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
 them, Then with crafty mind Odysseus of many
 wiles spoke among them:
    “Friends, inno wise may an old man that fs over-
 come with woe fight with a younger. Howbeit my
 belly, that worker of evil, urges me on, that I may
 be overcome by his blows, But come now, do you
 all swear to me a mighty oath, to the end that no
 ‘man, doing a favour to Irus, may deal me a foul blow
 with heavy hand, and so by violence subdue me to
 this fellow.”
    So he spoke, and they all gave the oath not to
 smite him, even as he bade. But when they had
 sworn and made an end of the oath, among them
 spoke agnin the strong and mighty Telemachus:
    “Stranger, if thy heart and thy proud spirit bid
 thee beat off this fellow, then fear not thou any man
 of all the Achaeans, for whoso strikes thee shall
 have to fight with more than thou. Thy host am I,
 and the princes assent hereto, Antinous and Eury-
 machus, men of prudence both.”
    So he spoke, and they all praised his words. But
 Odysseus girded his rags about bis loins and showed
 his thighs, comely and great, and his broad shoulders
 came to view, and his chest and mighty arms. And
 Athene drew nigh and made greater the limbs of
 ‘the shepherd of the people. ‘Then ΑἹ the wooers
 marvelled exceedingly, and thus would one speak
 with ἃ glance at his neighbour:
                                                  tox

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_212>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 73-97
    “Right soon sball Irus, un-Irused, have a bane
 of his own bringing, such a thigh does yon old man
 show from beneath his rags.”
    So they spoke, and the mind of Irus was miser-
 ably shaken; yet even so the serving men girded
 him, and led him out perforce all filled with dread,
‘and his flesh trembled on his limbs. ‘Then Antinous
 rated him and spoke, and addressed him:
    «Better were it now, thou braggart, that thou
‘wert not living, nor hadst ever been born, if thou
quailest and art so terribly afraid of this fellow—a
man that is old and overcome by the woe that has
come upon him. But I will speak out to thee, and
this word shall verily be brought to pass. If this
fellow conquers thee and proves the better man, I
will fling thee into a black ship and send thee to the
mainland to King Echetus, the maimer of all men,
who will eut off thy nose and ears with the pitiless
bronze, and will draw forth thy vitals and give them
raw to dogs to rend.”
   So he spoke, and thereat yet greater trembling
seized the other's limbs, and they led him into the
ving and both men put up their hands. Then the
much-enduring, goodly Odysseus was divided in mind
whether he should strike him so that life should leave
him even there as he fell, or whether he should deal
hhim a light blow and stretch him on the earth. And,
as he pondered, this seemed to him the better course,
to deal him a light blow, that the Achaeans might
not take note of him. Thenverily,when they had put
up their hands, Irus let drive at the right shoulder,
bbut Odysseus smote him on the neck beneath the ear
and crushed in the bones, and straightway the red
Blood ran forth from his mouth, and down he fell in
                                                   203

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_214>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 98-123
the dust with a moan, and he gnashed his teeth,
kicking the ground with his feet. But the lordl
‘wooers raised their hands, and were like to die wit
laughter. Then Odysseus seized him by the foot,
and dragged him forth through the doorway until
 he eame to the court and the gates of the portico.
 And he set him down and leaned him against the
wall of the court, and thrust his staff into his hand
and spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
   Sit there now, and scare off swine and dogs, and
do not thou be lord of strangers and beggars, miser-
able that thou art, lest haply thou meet with some
‘worse thing to profit withal.”
   He spoke, and flung about his shoulders his miser-
able wallet, fall of holes, and slung by a twisted
cord. Then back to the threshold he went and sat
down; and the wooers went within, laughing merrily,
and they greeted him, saying :
   “May Zeus grant’ thee, stranger, and the other
immortal gods what thou desirest’ most, and the
dearest wish of thy heart, seeing that thou hast
made this insatiate fellow to cease from begging
in the land. For soon shall we take him to. the
mainland to King Echetus, the maimer of all
men.
   So they spoke, and goodly Odysseus was glad at
the word of omen. And Antinous set before him
the great paunch, filled with fat and blood, and Am-
phinomus took up two loaves from the basket and
set them before him, and pledged him in a cup of
gold, and said :
   « Hail, Sir stronger; may happy fortune be thine
in timetocome, though now thou art the thrall of
‘many sorrows.”
                                                   205

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_216>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΥ͂ΠῚ. 124-152
       Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
    said: ““Amphinomus, verily thou seemest to me to
    be a man of prudence; and such a man, too, was thy
    father, for I have heard of his fair fame, that Nisus
    of Dulichium was ἃ brave man and a wealthy. From
    him, they say, thou art sprung, and thou seemest a
    man soft of speech. Wherefore I will tell thee, and
    do thou give heed and hearken. Nothing feebler
    does earth nurture than man, of all things that on
|   earth are breathing and moving. For he thinks that
    he will never suffer evil in time to come, so longas
|   the gods give him prosperity and his knees are quick;
    but when again the blessed gods decree him sorrow,
    this too he bears in sore despite with steadfast heart;
    for the spirit of men upon the earth is even such a5
    ‘the day which the father  ofgods and men brings upon
    them. For I, too, was once like to be prosperous
    among men, but manydeeds of wantonness I wrought,
    yielding to’ my might and my strength, and trust
    ing in my father and my brethren. »Wherefore let
    no man soever be lawless at any time, bat let him
    keep in silence whatever gifts the gods give. Aye,
    for I see the wooers devising wantonness, wasting
    the wealth and dishonouring the wife of aman who,
    I tell thee, willnot long be away from his friends
    ‘and his native land ; nay, he is very near. But may
    some god lead thee forth hence to thy home, and
    mayest thou not mect him when he comes home to
    his dear native land. For not without bloodshed,
    methinks, will the wooers and he part one from the
    other when once he comes beneath his roof.”
       So he spoke, and pouring ἃ libation, drank of the
    honey-sweet wine, and then.gave back the cup into
    the hands of the marshaller of the people. But
                                                        207

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_218>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 153-181
Amphinomus went through the hall with a heavy
heart, bowing his head; for his spirit bode bane.
Yet even so he did not escape his fate, but him,
too, did Athene set in bonds so that he might be
slain outright at the hands of Telemachus and by
his spear. 80 he sat down again on the chair from
which he had risen.
    Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, put it in
the heart of the daughter of Iearius, wise Penelope,
to show herself to the wooers, that she might, set
their hearts a-flutter and win greater honour from
her husband and her son than heretofore. Then
she laughed a meaningless Iaugh and spoke, and
addressed the nurse:
    “Burynome, my heart longs, though it has never
longed before, to show myself to the wooers, hateful
though they are. Also I would say a word to my son
that will be for his profit, namely, that he should
not consort ever with the overweening wooers, who
speak him fair but have evil plans thereafter.”
    Then the housewife, Eurynome, spoke to her and
said :Aye, verily, child, all this’ hast thow spoken
aright. Go, then, reveal thy word to thy son and
hide it not; but firstwashthy body and anoint thy
face, and go not as thou art with both cheeks stained
with tears, Go, for it is ill to grieve ever without
ceasing. For now, behold, thy son is of such an age,
and it has been thy dearest prayer to the immortals
to see him a bearded man.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered her again: “Eury-
nome, beguile me not thus in thy love to wash my
body and anoint me with oil. All beauty of mine
have the gods, that hold Olympus, destroyed since
the day when my lord departed in the hollow ships.
                                                  209

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_220>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 182-208
Bat bid Autonoe and Hippodameia come to me, that
they may stand by my side in the hall. Alone I
willnot go among men, for Tam ashamed.”
   So she spoke, and the old woman went forth
through the chamber to bear tidings to the women,
and bid them come.
   ‘Then again the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. On the daughter of Icatius she shed
sweet sleep, and she leaned back and slept there on
her couch, and all her joints were relaxed, And
meanwhile the fair goddess was giving her im-
mortal gifts, that the Achaeans might marvel at her.
With balm! she first made fair her beautiful face,
‘with balm ambrosial, such as that wherewith Cy-
therea, of the fair erown, anoints herself when she
goes into the lovely dance of the Graces; and she
made her taller, too, and statelier to behold, and
‘made her whiter than new-sawn ivory. Now when
she had done this the fairgoddess departed, and
the white-armed handmafds came forth from the
‘chamber and drew near with sound of talking. Then
sweet sleep released Penelope, and she rubbed her
cheeks with her hands, and said:
   “Ab, in my utter wretchedness soft slumber en-
folded ‘me. Would that pure Artemis would even
now give so soft a death, that I might no more waste
my life away with sorrow at heart, longing for the
manifold excellence of my dear husband, for that he
‘was pre-eminent among the Achaeans.”
   So saying, she went down from the bright upper
chamber, not alone, for two handmaids attended her.
Now when the fair lady reached the wooers she
  2 κάλλει ἀμβροσίῳ appears tobeusedin a conorétesenso,
forsome Lind
          afpalte δὲ  einent™ (Mfonc,)
                                                  an

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_222>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 209-235
 stood bythe doorpost of the well-built hall, holdi
 Before   erfce her  shining vel's and a fatthal hand,
 maid stood on either side of her. Straightway then
 the knees of the wooers were loosened and their
 hearts enchanted with love, and they all prayed,
 each that he might lie byher side. But she spoke
 to Telemachus, her dear son:
    “Telemachus, thy mind and thy thoughts are
 no longer steadfast as heretofore. When thou wast
 but a child thou wast wont to revolve in thy mind
 thoughts more cunning; but now that thou art
gvown and hast reached the bounds of manhood,
and wouldest be called a rich man's son by one who
looked only to thy stature and thy comeliness, being.
himself a stranger from afar, thy mind and thy
 thoughts are no longer right as before. What a
thing is this that has been done in these halls, that
thou hast suffered yon stranger to be so maltreated !
 How now, if the stranger, while sitting thus in our
house, should come to some harm through grievous
mishandling? On thee, then, would fall shame and
disgrace among men.”
     then wise Telemachus answered her: “My mother,
in this matter I take it not ill that thou art filed
with anger. Yet of myself I know in my heart and
understand each thing, the good and the evil, whereas
heretofore I was but achild. But I'am not able to
plan all things wisely, for these men here thwart my
will, keeping by me, one on this side and oneon that,
vit evil purpose, and T have none to help me,
Howbeit, Ican tell thee, this battle between the
stranger and Irus fell not out according to the mind
of the wooers, but the stranger proved the better
man, I would, O father Zeus, and Athene, and
                                                   213

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_224>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII, 236-266
 Apollo, that even now the wooers were thus sub.
 dued in our halls, and were hanging their heads,
 some in the court and some within the hall, and
 that each man's limbs were loosened, even as rus
 now sits yonder by the gate of the court, hanging
 his head like a drunken man, and cannot stand erect
 upon his feet, or go home to whatsoever place he is
 wont to go, because his limbs are loosened.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. But Eurymachus
addressed Penelope, and said:
    “Daughter of Tcarius, wise Penelope, if all the
Achaeans throughout lasian Argos could see thee,
‘even more wooers would be feasting in your halls
from to-morrow on, for thou excellest all women in
comeliness and stature, and in the wise heart within
thee.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Eurymachus,
all excellence of mine, both of beauty and of form,
the immortals destroyed on the day when the Ar
gives embarked for Πίος, and with them went my
husband Odysseus. Ifhe might but come and wate
over this life of mine, greater would be my fame
and fairer. But now I am in sorrow, so many woes
has some god brought upon me. Verily, when he
went forth and left his native land, he clasped my
right hand by the wrist, and said:
   “«« Wife, Ideem not that the well-greaved Achaeans
will all return from Troy safe and unscathed, for the
Trojans, men say, are men of war, hurlers of the
spear, and drawers of the bow, and driversofswift
horses, such as most quickly decide the great strife of
‘equal war. Therefore I know not whether the god
will bring me back, or whether I shall be cut off
there in the land of Troy: so have thou charge of
                                                   15

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_226>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 267-295
all things here. Be mindful of my father and my
mother in the halls even as thou art now, or yet
more, while I am far away. But when thou shalt
see my son a bearded man, wed whom thou wilt,
and leave thy house.’
    “So he spoke, ang now all this is being brought to
          The night shall come when a hateful marriage
shall fall to the lot of me accursed, whose happiness
Zeus has taken away. But herein has bitter grief
come upon my heart and βου], for such as yours was
never the way of wooers heretofore. ‘They who are
fain to woo alady of worth and the daughter ofa rich
man and vie with one another, these bring of them-
selves eatle and goodly flocks, ἃ banquet for the
friends of the bride, and give to her glorious gifts;
but they do not devour the livelihood of another
vithoutatonement”                                     ‘
      50 she spoke, and the much-enduring,
ayes ws glad, because she drew. homthes
gifts and beguled their sols with gentle words, bat
  jer mind was set on other things.
    Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke to her
again, and said: “Daughter of Icarius, wise Pene-
lope,    asforgifts, ifany man of the'Achaeansisminded
to bring them hither, do thon take them; for it is
tot wellto refuse. gift But for us, we wil goneither
to our lands nor elsewhither, until thou weddest him
whosoever is best of the Achaeans.”
    80 spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
them, and each man sent forth a herald to. brin
his gifts. For Antinous he brought a large anc
beautiful robe, richly brofdered, and in it were golden
brooches, twelve in all, fitted with curved clasps.
And a chain did another straightway bring to
                                                    a7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_228>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII 296-321
 Burymachus, one cunningly wrought of gold, strun,
 with amber beads, bright as the sun. Apa of ears
 rings his squires brought to Burydamas, with three
 clustering? drops, and great grace shone therefrom.
 ‘And outof the house of lordPeisander, sonofPolyctor,
 his squire brought a necklace, a jewel exceeding fair.
Soof the Achaeans one brought one fair gift and one
 another. But shethereafter, the fair lady, went up
 to her upper chamber, and her handmafds bare for
 her the beautiful gifts.
    But the wooers tumed to dance and gladsome
 song, and made them merry, and waited for even-
 ing to come on. And as they made merry dark
 evening came upon them. Presently they ‘set up
three braziers in the hall to give them light, and
 round about them placed dry                long
seasoned and hard, and newly split with the
and in the spaces between they set torches?; and in
turn the handmaids of Odysseus, of the steadfast
heart, kindled the fame, ‘Then Zeus-born Odysseus,
‘ofmany wiles, himself spoke among the maids, and
said:
    “Maidens  ofOdysseus, that has long been gone, go
tothe chambers where your honoured queen abides,
and twist the yarn by her side, and make glad het
heart, as you sit in the chamber, or card the wool
with your bands; but I will give light to all these
men. For if they wish to wait for fair-throned
Dawn, they shall inno wise outdo me, I am one
‘that can endure much.”
    So he spoke, and the maids broke into a laugh,
and glanced at one another. And fair-cheeked Me-
lantho rated him shamefully, Melantho, whom Dolius
   + Or pomibly “aot among them (the faggots) buming
pinosknote.”
                                                   219
      a

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_230>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 322-348
 begat, but whom Penelope had reared and cherished
 fas her own child, and gave her playthings to her
 heart's desie. Yet even τὸ she’hadat heart mo
 sorrow for Penelope, but she loved Eurymachus and
 was wont to lie with him, She then rated Odysseus
 with reviling words:
     “Wretched stranger, thou art but « erack-brained
 fellow, unwilling to go to n smithy to sleep, or toa
 common lodge, but pratest here continually, un-
 abashed in the company of many lords, and hast no
 fenr'at heart. Surely wine has mastered thy wits, or
 else thy mind is ever thus, that thou dost babble idly.
 Art thou beside thyself because thou hast beaten
 that vagrant rus? Beware, lest presently another
 better than [rus shall rise up against thee to beat
thee about the head with heavy hands, and befoul
thee with streams of blood, and send thee forth from
the house.”
    Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows
Odysseus of many wiles answered her: “ Presentl
shall 1 go yonder, thou shameless thing, and tell
Telemachus, sinee’ thou speakest thus, that on the
spot he may cut thee limb from lim!
    So he spoke, and with his words scattered the
women, who fled through the hall, and thelimbs of
each were loosened beneath her in terror, for the}
thought that he spoke truth. But Odysseus too
his stand by the burning braziers to give light,
‘and looked upon all the men. Yet other things was
the heart within him pondering—things that were
not to be unfulfilled.
    But Athene would in no wise suffer the proud
wooers to abstain from bitter outrage, that pain
might sink yet deeper into the heart of Odysseus,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_232>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 349-373
son of Laertes, So among them Eurymachus, son
of Polybus, began to speak, jeering at Odysseus,
and making mirth for his companions:
   “Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
‘may say what the heart in my breast bids me. Not
without the will of the gods has this man come to
the palace of Odysseus; in any case there is a glare
of torches from him—from his head, for there is no
hair on it, no, not a trace.”?
   herewith he called to Odysseus, sacker of cities :
“Stranger, wouldest thou have a mind to serve for
hire, if Ishould take thee into service on an outly-
ing farm—thy pay shall be assured thee—gathering
stones for walls, and planting tall trees? There would
I provide thee with food the yearthrough, andclothe
ttlee with raiment and give thee sandals or thy feet.
Bat since thon hast learned only deeds of evil, thou
wilt not care to busy thyself with work, but art
minded rather to go skulking through the land, that
thou mayest have wherewith to feed thy insatiate
belly.”
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Eurymachus, I would that we two might
have a match in working in the season of spring,
when the long days come, at mowing the grass, T
with a curved scythe in my hands and thou with
another like it, and that the grass might be in plenty
that so we might test our work, fasting till late
evening. Or Iwould again that there were oxen
to drive—the best there are, tawny and large, both
well fed with grass, of like age and like power to
bear the yoke, tireless in strength—and thet there
        sand the “radiance”
      from the
                                  beoomes but the gleam of the
                   stranger's bald head.
                                                          233

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_234>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII 374-400
 were a field of four acres, and the soil should yield
 before the plough: then shouldest thou see me,
 whether or no I could cut a straight furrow to the
 end, Or I would again that this day the son of
Cronos might bring war upon us from whence he
would, and I had a shield and two spears and a
helmet all of bronze, that fitted well my temples:
then shouldest thou see me mingling amid the fore-
most fighters, and wouldest not prate, taunting me
with this belly of mine. But right insolent art thou,
and thy heart is eruel, and forsooth thou thinkest
thyself to be some great man and mighty, because
thou consortest with few men and weak. If but
Odysseus might return, and come to his native land,
‘soon woald yonder doors, right wide though they are,
prove all too narrow for thee in thy flight outthrough
the doorway.’
   So he spoke, and Eurymachus waxed the more
wroth at heart, and with an angry glance from
beneath his brows spoke to him winged words :
   ‘“<Wretch, presently will I work thee evil, that
thou pret thus, unabashed in the presence of
many lords, and hast no fear at heart. Surely wine
has mastered thy wits, or else thy mind is ever thus,
that thou dost babble idly. Art thou beside thyself
because thou hast beaten that vagrant Irus?”
   So saying, he seized a footstool, but Odysseus sat
down at the knees of Amphinomus of Dalichium, in
fear of Eurymachus, “And so Eurymachus struck a
cup-bearer on the right hand, and the wine-jug fell
to the ground with a clang, end the bearer groaned,
and fell backwards in the dust. Then the wooers
broke into uproar throughout the shadowy halls, and
thus would one man speak with a giance at his
neighbour:                                         Bi

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_236>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 401-428
    “Would that yon stranger had perished elsewhere
 on his wanderings or ever he came hither; then
 should he never have brought among us all this
 tumult, But now we are brawling about beggars,
 nor shall there be any joy in our rich feast, since
 worse things prevail”
    ‘Then among them spoke the strong and mighty
 Telemachus: “Strange sirs, ye are mad, and no
 longer hide that ye have eaten and drunk; some god
 surely is moving you.      Nay, now that you have well
 feasted, go to your homes and take your rest, when
your spirits bid you. Yet do 1 drive no man forth.”
    So he spoke, and they all bit their lips, and
marveled αὶ Telemachus, that he spoke boldly. But
 Amphinomus spoke, and addressed them—he was
son of the noble prince Nisus, son of Aretias:
    “Friends, no man in answer to what has been
fairly spoken would wax wroth and make reply with
wrangling words. Abuse not any more this stranger
nor any one of the slaves that are in the house of
divine Odysseus. Nay, come, let the bearer pour
drops for libation in the cups, that we may pour
bations, and go home to take our rest. As for this
stranger, let us leave him in the halls of Odysseus to
be cared for by Telemachus ;for to his house has he
   So said he, and the words that he spoke were
pleasing to all. ‘Then a bowl was mixed for them by
the lord Mulius, a herald from Dulichium, who was
squire to Amphinomus. And he served out to all,
coming up to each in tarn; and they made libations
tothe blessed gods, and drank the honey-sweet wine.
‘Then when they had made libations and had drank
to their heart's content, they went their way, each
man to his own house, to take their rest.          se

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_238>>>
BOOK XIX
   So goodly Odysseus was left behind in the hall,
planning with Athene’said the slaying of the wooers,
tndhe sraightway spoke winged words to Tele-
   “Telemachus, the weapons of war thou must needs
lay away within one and all, and when the wooers
miss them and question thee, thou must beguile
them with gentle words, saying: ‘ Out of the smoke
have I laid them, since they are no longer like those
which of old Odysseus left behind him, when he
went forth to Troy, but are all befouled, so far as the
breath of fire has reached them. And furthermore
this greater fear hasagod putinmy heart lest haply,
when heated with wine, you may set ἃ quarrel afoot
among you, and wound one another, and so_bring
shame on your feast and on your wooing. For of
itself does the iron draw a man to it."”
   So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and calling forth the nurse Eurycleia,
      to her?
   “Nurse, come now, I bid thee, shut up the women.
in their rooms, while Tlay away in the store-room the
weapons of my father, the goodly weapons which all
uncared-for the smoke bedimsinthe hall since my
father went forth, and 1 was stillachild. But now Iam
minded to lay them away, where the breath of the
fire will not come upon them.”
                                                    129

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_240>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 21-46
        Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered him:
    “Aye, child, T would thou mightest ever take thought
    to care for the house and guard all its wealth. But
    ‘come, who then shall fetch a light and bear it for
    thee, since thou wouldest not suffer the maids, who
    might have given light, to go before thee?”
       ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her; “This
Ϊ   strangerhere ; for I will suffer no man to be idle who
    touches my portion of meal,} even though he has
    ‘come from afar.”
       So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged,
    and she locked the doors ofthe stately hall. ‘Then
    the two sprang up, Odysseus and his glorious son,
    and set about bearing within the helmets and the
    bossy shields and the sharp-pointed spears; and be-
    fore them Pallas Athene, bearing a golden lamp,
    made ἃ most beauteous light. ‘Then Telemachus
    suddenly spoke to his father, and said :
        “ Rather, verily this is a great marvel that my
    behold; certainly the walls of the house andthe fair
    beams? and cross-beams of fir and the pillars that
    reach on high, glow in my eyes as with the light of
    blazing fire. Surely some godiswithin, one of those
    who hold broad heaven.”
       ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
    said: “Hush, check thy thought, and ask no question ;
    this,Itell thee, is the way of the gods that hold
    Olympus. But do thou go and take thy rest and
    Lwill remain behind here, that I may stir yet more
    the minds of the maids and of thy mother; and she
    with weeping shall ask meofeach thing separately.”
      5.        μεσόδμαιisan obscure wordwhich ini. 424 (inthesing
    dentin    the       toed  tnwhch tho mat ole aip
    Yarchun took ἦν to mean here ‘the
                                                              et Aik
                                                     Spaces between the
    ‘columna” ;others the spaces between the.beams (panels).”
                                                                    231

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_242>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 47-72
   So he spoke, and Telemachus went forth through
the hall by the light of blazing torches to go to
his chamber to lie down, where he had heretofore
been wont to rest, when sweet sleep came upon him.
‘There now too he lay down and waited for the bright
Dawn. But goodly Odysseus was left behind in the
hall, planning with Athene’s aid the slaying of the
‘wooers,
   Then wise Penelope came forth from her chamber
like unto Artemis or golden Aphrodite, and for her
they set by the fire, where she was wont to sit, a
chair inlaid with spirals of ivory and silver, which of
old the craftsman Jemalius had made, and had set
beneath it ἃ foot-stool for the feet, thet was part of
the chair, and upon itagreat fleece was wonttobe
laid. On this then wise Penelope sat down, and the
white-armed maids came forth from thé ‘women’s
hall. ‘These began to take away the abundant food,
the tables, and the cups from which the lordly men
had been drinking, and they cast the embers from
the braziers on to the floor, and piled upon the
brasiers fresh Jogs in abundancetogive light and
warmth,
   ‘But Melantho began again α second time to rate
Odysseus, saying: “Stranger, wilt thon even now:
still be a plague to us through the .night, roaming
through the house, and wilt thou spy upon the
women? Nay, get thee forth, thou wretch, and be
content with thy supper, or straightway shalt thou
even be smitten with a torch, and so go forth.”
   Then with an angry glance from beneath his
brows Odysseus of many wiles answered he
“Good woman, why, pray, dost thou thus assail
me with angry heart? Is it because 1 am foul and
                                                    333

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_244>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 73-99
 ‘wear mean raiment on my body, and beg through
 the land? Aye, for necessity compels me” Of such
 sort are beggars and vagabond folk. For I too
 once dwelt in a house of my own among men, a
 rich man in a wealthy house, and fall often I gave
gifts toa wanderer, whosoever he was and with what
soever need he came. Slaves too I had past counting
and all other things in abundance whereby men live
well and are reputed wealthy. But Zeus, son of
Cronos, brought all to naught; so, I ween, was his
good pleasure. Wherefore, woman, beware lest thou
too some day lose all the glory whereby thou now hast
excellence among the handmiaids; lest perchance thy
mistress wax wroth and be angry with thee, or
Odysseus come home; for there is yet room for hope.
But if,even as it seems, he is dead, and is no moreto
return, yet now is his son by the favour of Apollo
such as he was—even Telemachus. Him it escapes
not if any of the women in the halls work wanton-
ness ;for he is no longer the child he was.”
    So he spoke, and wise Penelope heard him; and
she rebuked the handmaid and spoke, and addressed
he
   “Be sure, thou bold and shameless thing, that thy
outrageous deed isin no wise hid from me, and with
thine own head shalt thou wipe out its stain. Full
well didot thou know, for thou hast heard it from my
own lips, that I was minded to question the stranger
in my halls concerning my husband; for I am sore
distrossed.”
   ‘With this she spoke also to the housewife Eury-
nome, and said: “Eurynome, bring hither a chair
and a fleece upon it, that the stranger may sit down
and tell his tale, and listen to me; for Tamfain to
ask him of all things.”                           235

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_246>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 100-128
    So she spoke, and Burynome speedily      brought a
polished chair and set it in place, and on it cast a
fleece. Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus
satdown apon i and the wise Penelope spoke fist,
and said :
    “Stranger, this question will I myself ask thee
first. Who art thou among men, and from whence?
Where is thy city, and where thy parents?”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lady, no one of mortals upon the boundless
‘earth could find fault with thee, for thy fame goes
up to the broad heaven, as does the fame of some
blameless king, who with the fear of the gods in his
heart, is lord’ over many mighty men, upholding
justice; and the black earth bears wheat and barley,
‘and the trees are laden with fruit, the flocks bring
forth young unceasingly, and the sea yields fish, all
from his good leading ; and the people prosper under
him. Wherefore question me now in thy house of
all things else, but ask not concerning my race and
my native land, lest thou fill my heart the more with
pains,asI think thereon; for I am a man of many
sorrows. Moreover it isnot fitting that I should sit
‘weeping and wailing in another's house, for it isill
to grieve ever without ceasing. I would not that one
of thy maidens or thine own self be vexed with me,
and say that I swim in tears because my mind is
heavy with wine.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Stranger,
all excellence of mine, both of beauty and of form,
the immortals destroyed on the day when the Argives
embarked for Ilios, and with them went my husband,
Odysseus. If he might bat come, and watch over
this life of mine, greater would be my fame and fairer.
                                                   237

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_248>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 129-156
Bat now Iam in sorrow, 50 many woes has some god
brought upon me. For all the princes who hold
sway over the islands—Dulichium and Same and
wooded Zacynthus—and those who dwell around in
will, and lay waste my house. Wherefore I pay no
heed to strangers or to suppliants or in any wiseto
heralds, whose trade is a public one; but in longing
for Odysseus Iwastemyheart away. So these men
urge on my marriage, and I wind a skein of wiles.
First some god breatlied the thought in my heart to
set up a great web in ty halls and fall to weaving a
robe—fine of thread was the web and very wides
and Istraightway spoke among them:
   ‘Young men, my wooers, since goodly Odysseus
is dead, be patient, though eager for my marriage,
until I finish this robe—I would notthat my spinning
should come to naught—a shroud for the lord Laertes
against the time when the fell fate of grievous death
shall strike him down ;lest any one ofthe Achaean
women in the land should be wroth with me, if he
were to lie without a shroud, who had won great
possessions.
   “So I spoke, and their proud hearts consented.
Then day by day I would weave at the great web,
but by night would unravel it, when I had let
place torches by me. ‘Thus for three years I kept the
Achaeans from knowing, and beguiled them; but
‘when the fourth year came,asthe seasons rolled on,as
‘the months waned, and the many days were brought
in their course, then verily bythe help of my maidens,
shamelass creatures and reckless, they came upon
me and caught me, and upbraided me loudly. SoI
finished the web against my will perforce. And now
                                                   239

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_250>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 157-183
    Τ can neither escape the marriage nor devise any
    counsel more, and my parents are pressing me to


ἑ
    mary and my gon frets, while these men devour bis
    livelihood, as he takes note of it all; for by now he
    is aman, and fully able to care for a household to
    which Zeus grants honour. Yet even so tell me of
    thy stock from whence thou art; for thou art not
    sprung from an oak of ancient story, or from a
    stone.”?
        Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
    said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
    wilt thou never cease toask me of my linenge? Well,
    I will tell thee ; though verily thou wilt give me over
    to pains yet more than those by which I am now
    held in thrall ;for so it ever is, when a man has been
    far from his country as long as [have now, wandering
    rough the many ities of men in sore dstress
    Yet even so will Itell thee what thou dost                askand
    enquire. There is ἃ land called Crete, in the midst
    of the wine-dark sea, a fair, rich land, begirt with


β
    water, and therein are many men, past counting, and
    ninety cities. They have not ali the same speech,
    ut their tongues are mixed. There dwell Achacans,
    there greathearted native Cretans, there Cydonians,
    and Dorians of waving plumes, and goodly Pelasgians.
    ‘Among their citiesisthe great city Cnosus, where
    ‘Minos reigned when nine years old,? he that held
    converse with great Zeus,andwas fatherof my father,
    great-hearted Deueslion. Now Deucalion begatme
    and prince Idomeneus. Idomeneus had gone forth in
    his beaked ships to Ilios with the sons of Atreus; but
       2 Some ofrender,
    peviods             ls ately,other,
                  nine! yeaa";      "for aking
                                          nine years”
                                                 doris orἀρ * through
                                                              a ound
    Ember, “when he was come to fall maturity.” See the
    note on
                                                                  24x

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_252>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 184-210
 my famous name is Aethon ;I was the younger bj
 birth, while he was the elder and the betterman,
 ‘Ther i was that Τῶν, Odysseus and gave him gis
 of entertainment; for the force of the wind had
 Drought him too to Crete, as he was making for the
 land of Troy, and drove him out of his course past
 Malea. So he anchored his shipsat Amnisus,       whereis
 the cave of Eilithyia, in a dificult harbour, and hardly
‘did he escape the storm. Then straightway he
 went up to the city and asked for Idomeneus, for he
 Aeclared thathe was his frend, beloved and honoured.
 But it was now the tenth or the eleventh dawn since
 Idomeneus hed gone in his beaked ships to Ilios
 So I took him to the house, and gave himentertain
 ment with kindly weleome of the zich store that
 was in the house, and to the rest of his comrades
 who followed ‘with him I gathered and gave out of
 the public store barley meal and flaming wine and
 bulls for secifice, that their hearts might be satisfied.
 There for twelve days the goodly Achaeans tarried,
 for the strong North Wind penned them there, and
 would not suffer them to stand upon their fect on
 the land, for some angry god had roused it. But on
 the thirteenth day the wind fell and they puttosea"
     He spoke, and made the many falsehoods of his
 tale seem like the truth, and as she listened her
 tears fowed and her face melted as the snow melts
 on the lofty mountains, the sow which the East
 Wind thaws when the West Wind bas strewn it,
 and as itmelts the streams of the rivers flow full
 so her fair cheeks. melted aa she wept and mourned
 for her husband, who even then was sitting by her
 side. And Odysseus in his heart had pity for his
 τα
    Ὁ Many take fee  to
                      τ τ
                         mean merely “sid” or “uttered,”
                                                     58

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_254>>>
THE ODYSSRY, XIX. 211-236
weeping wife, but his eyes stood fixed between his
Jids as though they were horn or iron, and with guile
he hid his tears. But she, when she bad had her
fill of tearful wailing, again answered him and spoke,
saying
    “«Now verily, stranger,am I minded to put thee
to the test, whether or no thou didst in very truth
entertain there in thy halls my husband with his
godlike comrades, even as thou sayest. Tell me
what manner of raiment he wore about his body,
and what manner of man he was himself; and tell
me of the comrades who followed him.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lady, hard is it for one that has been so long
afar to tell thee this, for it is now the twentieth year
since he went thence and departed from my country.
But I will tell thee as my mind pictures him. A
flecy clock of purple did goodly Odysseus west, &
cloak of double fold, but the brooch upon it was
fashioned of gold with double clasps, and on the
front it was curiously wrought: a hound held in his
fore paws α dappled fawn, and pinned it? in his jaws
tit withed. "And at this all'men marvelleg, how,
though they were of gold, the hound was pinning
the fawn and strangling it, and the fawn was writhing
     hits feet and striving to flee. And I noted the
tunic about his body, all shining as is the sheen upon
the skin of a dried onion, so soft it was; and it
glistened like the sun. Verily many women gazed
at him in wonder. And another thing will Itell thee,
and do thou lay it to heart. I know not whether
fn that it means “gazed at” ‘The scboliast gives three
neaningt, ἀοχαύων, Badrar, and ὕλάων, attributed respeot~
ively ἐδ Acatarchus, Crates, and “others.”

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_256>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 237-264
Oaysseus was thus clothed at home, or whether one
ofon His comrades gave him the raimest when he went
     board the swift ship, or haply even some stranger,
since to many men was Odysseus dear, for few of the
Achaeans were his peers. “I, too, gave him a sword
of bronze, and a fair purple cloak’ of double fold, and
ἃ fringed tunic, and with all honour sent him forth
on his benched’ ship. Furthermore, aherald attended
him, a little older than he, and I will tell thee of him.
too, what manner of man he was. He was round-
shouldered, dark of skin, and curly-haired, and his
name was Eurybates; and Odysseus honoured him
above his other comrades, because he was .ike-minded
with himself.”
    So he spoke, and in her heart aroused yet more
the desire of weeping, as she recognized ‘the sure
tokens that Odysseus told her. But she, when she
had had her fill of tearful wailing, made answer and
said to him:
    “Now verily, stranger, though before thou wast
pitied, shalt thou be dear and honoured in my halls,
for it was I that gave him this raiment, since
describest it thus, and folded it, and brought it forth
from the store-room, and added thereto the shining
brooch to be a thing of joy to him. But my husband
I shall never welcome back, returning home to his
dear native land. Wherefore it was with an evil fate
that Odysseus went forth in the hollow ship to see
evil ios, that should never be named.”
    ‘ThenHonoured
said:      Odysseus of many wiles answered hher, and
                     wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
mar not now thyfairface any more, nor waste thy
heart at all in weeping for thy husband. I count it
indeed no blame in thee; for any woman weeps
                                                      247

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_258>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 265-204
when she has lost her wedded husband, to whom
she has borne children in her love, though he were
far other than Odysseus, who, they say, is like unto
the gods. Yet do thou cease from weeping, and
hearken to my words; for I will tell thee with sure
truth, and will hide nothing, how but lately 1 heard
of the return of Odysseus, that he is near at hand
in the rich land of the Thesprotians, and yet alive,
and he isbringing with him many rich treasires,ashe
begs through the land. But he lost his trusty com-
rades and his hollow ship on the wine-dark sea, as
he journeyed from the isle Thrinacia; for Zeus and
Helios waxed wroth against him because his comrades
hhad slain the kine of Helios. So they all perished
in the surging sea, but he on the keel of his ship
‘was cast forth by the wave on the shore, on the land
  f the Phaeacians, who are near of kin to the gods.
  Chese heartily showed him all honour, as if he were
ἃ god, and gave him many gifts, and were fain them-
selves to send him home unseathed. Yea, and Odys-
seus would long since have been here, only it seemed
to his mind more profitable to gather wealth by
roaming over the wide earths so truly does Od;
seus beyond all mortal men know many gainful ways,
nor could any mortal beside vie with him. Thus
 Pheidon, king of the Thesprotians, told me the tale.
 Moreover he swore in my own presence, ashe poured
libations in his halls, that the ship was launched and
the men ready who were to convey him to his dear
native land. But me he sent forth first, for a ship
‘of the Thesprotians    chanced to be setting out for
 Dulichium, rich in wheat. And he showed me all
 the treasure that Odysseus had gathered; verily
unto the tenth generation would it feed his children
                                                   249

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_260>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 295-323
after him, so great was the wealth that lay stored
for him in the halls of the king. But Odysseus, he
said, had gone to Dodona to hear the will of Zeus
from the high-erested oak of the god, even how he
might return to his dear native land after so long an
absence, whether openly or inseeret.
   “Thus,as[tell thee, he is safe, and will presently
come ;he is very near, and not long will he now be
far from his friends and his native land. Yet will I
give thee an oath. Be Zeus my witness first, highest
and best of gods, and the hearth of noble Odysseus
to which Γ am come, that verily all these thins shall
be broughit to pass even as Itell thee. In the course
of this very month shall Odysseus come hither, as
the old moon wanes and the new appears.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Ah, stranger,
I would that this word of thine might be fulfilled.
‘Then shouldest thou straightway know of kindness
and many a gift from me, 80 that one who met thee
would cal thee blessed. "Yet in my heart I forebode
it thus, even as it shall be. Neither shall Odysseus
any more come home, nor shalt thou obtain a convoy
hence, since there are not now in the house such
masters  asOdysseus was among men—as sure as ever
such ἃ man there was—to send reverend strangers
on their way, and to welcome them. But still, my
maidens, wash the stranger's feet and prepare his
bed—bedstead and cloaks and bright coverlets—that
in warmth and comfort he may come to the golden-
throned Dawn. And right early in the moming
bathe him and anoint him, that in our house at the
side of Telemachus he may bethink him of food as
he sits in the hall, And worse shall it be for any
‘man among them who vexes this man’s soul with
                                                  251

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_262>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 324-352
 pain; naught thereafter shall he accomplish here,
 hhow fierce soever his wrath, For how shalt thou
 earn of me, stranger, whetherIin any wise excel
 other women in wit and prudent counsel, if all un-
 Kempt and clad in poor raiment thon sittest at meat
 in my halls? Men are but short-lived. If one be
 himself hard, and have a hard heart, on him do all
 mortal men invoke woes for the time to coine, while
 he still lives, and when he is dead all men mock
 at him, Butifone be blameless and have a blame-
 Tess heart, his fame do strangers bear far and wide
 among all men, and many call him a true man.’
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Lacrtes,
verily cloaks and bright cayerlets became hateful
in my eyes on the day when first I left behind me
the snowy mountains of Crete, as 1 fared on my
Tong-oared ship. Nay, I will lie, as in time past I
‘was wont to rest through sleepless nights; for many
anight have [ lain upon a foul bed and waited for
the bright-throned Dawn. Aye, and baths for the
feet give my heart no pleasure, nor shall any woman
touch my foot of all those who are serving-women
in thy hall, unless there is some old, true-hearted
dame who has suffered in her heart asmany woesasI;
such an one I would not grudge to touch my fect.”*
    Then wise Penelope answered him again: “Dear
stranger, never yet has a man discreet as thou, of
those who are strangers from afar, come to my house
as a more weleome guest, so wise and prudent are
all thy words, I have an old dame with a heart of
                                                  253

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_264>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 353-381
‘understanding in her breast, who lovingly nursed and
cherished my hapless husband, and took him in her
arms on the day when his mother bore him. She
shall wash thy feet, weak with age though she be.
 Come now, wiseEurycleia, arise and wash the feet
of one of like age with thy master. Even such as
 his are now haply the feet of Odysseus, and such his
hands, for quickly do men grow old in evil fortune.”
    So she spoke, and the old woman hid her face in
 her hands and let fall hot tears, uttering words of
lamentation
    “Ah, woe is me, child, because of thee, for that 1
can do’ naught. Surely’ Zeus hated thee above all
men, though thou hadst a god-fearing heart. For
never yet did any mortal burn to Zeus, who hurls
‘the thunderbolt, so many fat thigh-pieces or so many
choice heeatombs as thou gavest him, with prayers
that thou mightest reach ἃ sleek old age and rear
thy gloriousson. But lo, now, from thee alone has he
wholly ent off the day of thy returning. Even thus,
I ween, did women mock at him too,' in a strange
‘and distant land, when he came to some man’s
glorious house, as these shameless creatures here all
mock at thee. It is to shun insult now from them
and their many taunts that thou dost not suffer them
to wash thy fect, but me, who am nothing loath, has
the daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, bidden to
wash thee. Therefore will I wash thy feet, both for
Penelope’s own sake and for thine, for the heart
within me is stirred with sorrow. But come now,
hearken to the word that I shall speak. Many sore-
tried strangers have come hither, but I declare that
never yet have Iseen any man so like another as tho
in form, and in voice, and in feet art like Odysseu:
                                                    255

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_266>>>
‘THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 382-408
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Old dame, so say all men whose eyes have
beheld us two, that we are very like each other, even
as thon thyself dost note and say.”
   So he spoke, and the old dame took the shining
cauldron with’ water wherefiom she was about to
wash his feet, and poured in cold water in plenty,
and then added thereto the warm. But Odysseus sat
him down away from the hearth and straightway
turned himself toward the darkness, for he at once
had a foreboding at heart that, as she touched him,
she might note a scar, and the truth be made manic
fest. 80 she drew near and began to wash her lord,
and straightway knew the scar of the wound which
long ago a boar had dealt him with his white tusk,
when Odysseus had gone to Parnassus to visit Auto-
lycus and the sons of Autolyeus, hismother's noble
  ther, who excelled all men in thievery and in oaths.
Te was a god himself thathad given him this skill, even
Hermes, for'to him he was wont to burn acceptable
sacrifices of the thighs of lambs and kids; so Hermes
befriended him with a ready heart, Now Autolycus,
on coming once to the rich land of Ithaca, had found
his daughter’s son a babe new-born, end when he
was finishing his supper, Eurycleia laid the child
upon his knees and spoke, and addressed hit
     Autolycus, find now thyself ἃ name to give to
thy child’s own child; be sure he has long been
prayed fo
       jen Autolycus answered her, and said: “My
@aughter’s husband and my daughter, give him
whatsoever name I say. Lo, inasmuch as T am
come hither as one that has been angered with
many, both men and women, over the fruitful earth,
                                                    257

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_268>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 409-437
therefore let the mame by which the child is named
be Odysseus. And for my part, when he is a man
grown and comes to the great house of his mother's
kin at Parnassus, where are my possessions, 1will
give him thereof ‘and send him back rejoicing
    Tt was for this reason that Odysseus had come,
that Autolyeus might give him the glorious gifts,
And Autolyeus and the sons of Autolycus clasped
his hands in welcome and greeted him with gentle
words, and Amphithes, his mother’s mother, took
Odysseus in her arms and kissed his head and both
his beautiful eyes. But Autolycus called to his
glorious sons to make ready the meal, and they
hearkened to his call. At once they led in a bull,
five years old, which they flayed and dressed, and
‘cut up all the limbs, Then they sliced these cun-
ningly and pierced them with spits, and roasted them
skilfully and distributed the portions. So,then, all
day long till set of sun they feasted, nor did their
hearts lack aught of the equal feast. 'But when the
‘sun set and darkness came on they lay down to rest
and took the gift of sleep.
   But as soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-
fingered, they went forth to the hunt, the hounds
and the sons of Autolycus too, and with them went
goodly Odysseus. Up the steep mountain Parnassus,
clothed with forests, they climbed, and presently
reached its windy hollows. The sun was now just,
striking on the fields, as he rose from softly-gliding,
deep-fowing Oceanus, when the beaters came to a
glade, Before them went the hounds, tracking the
scent, and behind them the sons of Autolycus, and
among these the goodly Odysseus followed, close
        Ὁ Or“Child of Wrath” ;neethe noteon i,62
                                                    259

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_270>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 438-467
 upon the hounds, brandishing his long spear.
  Now thereby a great wild boar was lying in a thick
 lair, through which the strength of the wet winds
 could never blow nor the rays of the bright sun
 beat, nor could the rain pierce through it, so thick
 it was; and fallen leaves were there in plenty. Then
 about the boar there came the noise of the feet of
 men and dogs as they pressed on in the chase, and
 forth from his lair he came against them with bristling
 back and eyes flashing fire, and stood there at bay
 close before them, ‘Then first of all Odysseus rushe
 on, holding his long spear on high in his stout hand,
 eager to smite him} but the boar was too quick for
 him and struck him above the knee, charging upon
 him sideways, and with his tusk tore a long gash in
 the flesh, but did not reach the bone of the man.
 But Odysseus with sure aim smote him on the right
 shoulder, and clear through went the point of the
 bright spear, and the boar fell in the dust with a
 cry, and his life flew from him. Then the dear sons
 of ‘Autolycus busied themselves with the carcase,
and the wound of noble, god-like Odysseus they
 bound up skilfully, and checked the black blood with
ἃ charm, and straightway returned to the house of
their dear father, And when Autolycus and the sons
of Autolycus had fully healed him, and had given
him glorious gifts, they quickly sent him back with
joy to his native land, to Ithaca. Then his father
and his honoured mother rejoiced at his return, and
asked him all the story, how he got his wound; and
he told them all the truth, how, while he was hunting,
‘a boar had struck him with his white tusk when he
hhad gone to Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.
    This sear the old dame, when she had taken the
                                                    261

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_272>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 468-495
limb in the flat of her hands, knew by the touch,
‘and she let fall the foot. Into the basin the leg fell,
    id the brazen vessel rang. Over it tilted, and the
‘water was spilled upon the ground. Then upon her
soul came joy and grief in one moment, and both
her eyes were filled with tears and the flow of
her voice was checked, But she touched the chin of
Odysseus, and said :
    “Verily thou art Odysseus, dear child, and 1 knew
thee not, till I had handled all the body of my
lord.”
    ‘She spoke, and with her eyes looked toward Pene-
lope, fain to show her that her dear husband was at
home. But Penelope could not meet her glance nor
understand, for Athene had turned her thoughts
aside. But Odysseus, feeling for the woman's throat,
seized it with his right hand, and with the other
drew her closer to him, and said:
    “Mother, why wilt thou destroy me? Thou didst
thyself nurse me at this thy breast, and now after
many grievous toils I am come in the twentieth year
to my native Jand. But since thou hast found me
out, and ἃ god has put this in thy heart, be silent
lest any other in the halls learn hereof.” For thus
will I speak out to thee, and verily it shall be
Drought to pass: if agod shall subdue the lordly
weooers unto me, I will not spare thee, my nurse
though thouart, when I slay the other serving-women
in my halls.”
    Then wise Eurycleia answered him: “My child,
what a word has escaped the barrier of thy teeth!
Thon knowest how firm my spit is and unyielding:
       all be as close as hard stone or iron. And an-
other thing will I tell thee, and do thou lay it to
                                                   265

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_274>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 496-524
heart. Ifa god shall subdue the lordly wooers unto
thee,then will I name over totheethe women in thy
halls, which ones dishonour thee, and which are
guiltless.
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Mother, why, pray, wilt thou speak of them?
‘Thou needest not at all. OF myself will I mark them
well, and come to know each one. Nay, keep the
matter to thyself, and leave the issue to the gods.’
     So he spoke, and the old woman went forth
through the hall to bring water for his feet, for all
the first was spilled. And when she had washed him,
and anointed him riebly with ofl, Odysseus again
Arew his chair nearer to the fire to warm himself, and
hid the sear with his rags.
     ‘Then wise Penelope was the first to speak, saying :
Stranger, this little thing forther will I ask thee
myself, for it will soon be the hour for pleasant rest,
for him at least on whom sweet sleep maycome de-
spite his care, But to me has a god given sorrow
thatsis beyond all measure, for day by day I find my
joy in mourning and lamenting, while looking to my
household tasks and those of my women in the
house, but when night comes and sleep lays hold of
all, I'lie upon my bed, and sharp cares, crowding
close about my throbbing heart, disquiet me, as I
mourn. Even as when the daughter of Pandareus,
the nightingale of the greenwood, sings sweetly,
then spring is newly come, ax she tits porcied amd
the thick leafage of the trees, and with many trilling
notes pours forth her rich voice in wailing for her
child, dear Itylus, whom she had one day slain with
    3 Sothe acholiast, ἡ ἐν χλωροῖν διατρίβουσα, Others under-
stand the wordofthe colour of the bird itself
                                                          265,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_276>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 523-548
 thesword unwittingly, Itylas, the son of king Zethus;
 even so my heart sways to and fro in doubt, whether
 to abide with my son and keep all things safe, my
 pessessions, my slaves) and my great, high-rofed
 house, respecting the bed of my          husband and the voice
 of the people, or to go now with him whosoever is
 best of the Achaeans, who woos me in the halls and
 offers bride-gifts past counting. Furthermore my
 son, so long as he was achild and slack of wit, would
 not suffer me to marry and leave the house of my
 husband but now that he is grown and has reached
 the bounds of manhood, 1ο, he even prays me to
{go back again from these halls, being vexed for his
substance that the Achaeans devour to his cost. But
‘come now, hear this dream of mine, and interpret it
 for me. Twenty geese I have in the house that
come forth from the water! and eat wheat, and my
Heart   warms with joy as 1 watch them, βὰν forth
 from the mountain there came a great eagle with
crooked beak and broke all their necks and killed
them; and they lay strewn in a heap in the halls,
while he was borne aloft to the bright sky. Now for
mypart I wept and wailed, in a dream though it was,
and round me thronged the fair-tressed Achaean
women, as I grieved piteously because the eagle had
slain my geese. Then back he came and perched
upon a projecting roof-beam, and with the voice of a
‘mortal man checked my weeping, and said:
    «Be of good cheer, daughter of far-famed Ic
this is a0 dream, but a true vision of good which
shall verily find fulfilment. ‘The geese are the
wooers, and I, that before was the eagle, am now
  2Others take ἐξ ὕδατον closely with πυράν, eat wheat out
of the waler-trough.”"
                                                           267

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_278>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 549-574
 again come back as thy husband, who will let loose
 ἃ eruel doom upon all the wooers.”
    “So he spoke, and sweet sleep released me, and
 looking about TIsaw the geese in the halls, feeding
 on wheat beside the trough, where they had before
 been wont to feed.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her and
said: Lady, in no wise is it possible to wrest this
ream aside and give it another meaning, since verily
 Odysseus himself has shewn thee how he will bring
 ito pass. For the wooers' destruction is plain to see,
 for one and all; not one of them shall escape death
and the fates.”
   ‘Thenwise Penelope answered him again: “Stranger,
reams verily are bailing and unclear of meaning,
and in no wise do they find fulfilment in all things
for men. For two are the gates ofshadowy dreams,
and one is fashioned of horn and one of ivory. Those
dreams that pass through the gate of sawn ivory de-
ceive men, bringing words that find no fulfilment?
But those that come forth through the gate of
polished horn bring true issues to pass, when any
‘mortal sees them. But in my case it wasnotfrom
thence, methinks, that my strange dream came. Ah,
truly it would then have been welcome to me and to
my son. But another thing will I tell thee, and do
thou lay it to heart, Even now is coming’ on this
morn of evil name which is to cut me off from the
house of Odysseus; for now I shall appoint for a con-
test those axes which he was wont tosetup in line
in his halls, like props of a ship that is building,
   ὁ the, "08hpay’ upon
soft                "Boon thetalpays
                               words fect
                                     κίραι, horn"
                                              nad.and χγαίνω,
                                                  ἀλαράφομει
s Guclvy” cannot beproverved fn Bog
                                                         269

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_280>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 575-599
 twelve in all, and he would stand afar offand shoot
 an arrow through them. Now then I shall set this
‘contest before ‘the wooers: whosoever shall most
 easily string the bow in his hands, and shoot an
arrow through all twelve axes, with him will I go
and forsake this house of my wedded life, a house
‘most fair and filled with livelihood, which, methinks,
 I shall ever remember even in my dreams.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
no longer now do thou put off this contest in thy
halls; for, I tell thee, Odysseus of many wiles will be
here, ere these men, handling this polished bow,
shall have strung it, and shot an arrow through the
fron.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “If thou
couldest but wish, stranger, to sit here in my halls
and give me joy, sleep should never be shed over my
eyelids. Bui it is in no wise possible that men
should forever be sleepless for the immortals have
appointed a proper time for each thing upon the
carth the giver of grain, But I verily will po to my
upper chamber and lay me on my bed, which has
become for me a bed of wailings, ever bedewed with
my tears, since the day when Odysseus went        tosee
evil Nios, that should never be named. There will I
lay me down, but do thou lie down here in the hall,
when thou hast strewn bedding on the floor       ;orlet
the maids set a bedstead for thee.”

tybolrl
Syeenacan soedays); treand (uchlastlyaon
                                     ,     have anμισὴ
                                        that            auvival
                                                   expert archer feo,
                                                                 eos
hoot an placed
‘arofally arrow inchrough
                        Lines aa al    éwelve α ert
                                     thcough      holestheaxes being
                                                    οἱ te,
                                                                an

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_284>>>
BOOK XX
    Bur the         go dly Odysseus lay down to sleep in the
 forethal ofthehouse, On te ground he apreed
 an undressed ox-hide and above it many fleeces of
 sheep, which the Achaeans were wont to slay, and
 Eurynome threw over him a cloak, when he had laid
 him down. There Odysseus, pondering in his heart
 evil for the wooers, lay sleepless. And the women
 came forth from the hall, those that had before been
 wont to lie with the wooers, making laughter and
 merriment among themselves. But the heart was
 stirred in his breast, and much he debated in mind and
 heart, whether he should rush after them and deal
 death to each, or suffer them to lie with the insolent
 wwooers for the last and Intest time; and his heart
 growled within him, And asa bitch stands over her
 tender whelps growling, when she sees a man she
 does not know, and is eager to fight, so his heart
 growled within im in his wrath at their evil deeds;
 Dut he smote his breast, and rebuked his heart,
 saying:
    “Endure, my heart; a worse thing even than this
 dst thou once endure on that day when the Cyclops,
 unrestrained in daring, devoured my mighty com-
 rades; but thou didst endure until craft got thee
 forth from the cave where thou thoughtest to die.”
    So he spoke, chiding the heart in his breast, and
 his heart remained bound? within him to endure
  2Soπείση
rect    the with
            acheliant,  who and
                  πείθομαι, renders by ‘in
                                render  ἐν δεσμοῖν,
                                            obedience,”Otherscon-
                                                             275

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_286>>>
THE ΟΡΥΒΒΕΥ͂, XX. 24-51
 steadfastly;but he himself lay tossing this way and
 ‘that. And as when a manbefore a great blazing fire
 ‘turns swiftly this way and thatapaunch fall of fat and
 blood, and is very eager to have it roasted quickly, so
 Odysseus tossed from side to side, pondering how he
 might put forth hishands upon the shameless wooers,
 fone man as he was against so many. Then Athene
 came down ftom heaven and drew near to him in the
 likeness of awoman, and she stood above his head,
‘and spoke to him, and said:
    “Why now again art thou wakefal, ill-fated above
all men? Lo, this is thy house, and here within is
 thy wife and thy child, such a man, methinks, as any-
‘one might pray to have for his son.”
    And Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: Yea, goddess, all this hastthou spoken atight.
But the heart in my breast is pondering somewhat
‘upon this, how I may put forth my hands upon the
shameless’ wooers, all alone as I arm, while they re-
main always in a body in the house. And further-
more this other and harder thing I ponder in my
mind: even if I were to slay them by the will of
Zeus and of thyself, where then should 1 find
‘escape from bane? Of this I bid thee take
thought.”
    Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: Obstinate one, many a man puts his trust
even in a weaker friendthan I am,one that is mortal,
and knows notsuch wisdom as mine; but I am a god,
‘that guard thee to the end in all thy toils. And I
will tell thee openly; if fifty troops of mortal men
should stand about us; eager to slay us in battle,
‘even their cattle and goodly sheep shouldest thou
Grive off. Nay, let sleep now come over thee.
                                                     371

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_288>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 52-79
  There   isweariness also in keeping wakeful watch the
  whole night through ;and even now shalt thou come
  forth from out thy perils.”
     So she spoke, and shed sleep upon his eyelids,but
  herself, the fair goddess, went, back to Olympus.
     ‘Now while sleep seized him, loosening the cares of
 his heart, sleep that loosens ‘the limbs of men, his
 true-hearted wife awoke, and wept, as she sat upon
 her soft bed. But when her heart had had itsllof
 ‘weeping, toArtemis first of all the fair lady made her
 prayer:
     «Artemis, mighty goddess, daughter of Zeus, would
 that now thou wouldest fix thy arrow inmy’ breast
 and take away my life even in this hour; or that ἃ
 storm-wind might catch me up and bear me hence
 over the murky ways, andeastme forth at the mouth
 of backward-flowing Oceanus, even as on a time
 storm-winds bore away the daughters of Pandareus.
 Their perents the gods bad shiny and they were left
      hans in the halls, and fair Aphrodite tended them
 with cheese, and sweet honey, and pleasant wine,
 tnd Here give them beauty and wisdom above all
 women, and chaste Artemis gave them stature, and
 Athene taught them skil in famous handiwork. But
 while beautiful Aphrodite was going to high Olympus
Toaskforthemaidens theaccomplishment of gladsome
 marriage—going to Zeus who hurls the thunderbolt,
 for well he knows all things, both the happiness and
 the haplessness of mortal men—meanwhile the spirits
 of the storm snatched away the maidens and gave
 them to the hateful Erinyes to deal with. Would
that even 80 those who have dwellings on Olympus
 would blot me from sight, or that fair-tressed
           4Othere render to betheir servante.”
                                                     279

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_290>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 80-106
 Artemis would smite me, so that with Odysseus
 before my mind Imight even pass beneath the hateful
 earth, and never gladden in any wise the heart of a
 baser man. Yet when a man weeps by day with a
 heart sore distressed, but at night sleep holds him,
 this brings with it an evil that may well be borne—
 for sleep makes one forget all things, the good and
 the evil, when once it envelops the eyelids—but
‘upon me ἃ god sends evil dreams as well. For this
night again there lay by my side one like him, even
such as he was when he went forth with the host,
and my heart was glad, for Ideemed it was no dream,
but the trath at last.”
    So she spoke, and straightway came golden-throned
Dawn. But as she wept goodly Odysseus heard her
voice, and thereupon he mused, and it seemed to his
heart that she knew him and’ was standing by his
head. Then he gathered up the cloak and the fleeces
on which he was lying and laid them on a chair in
the hall, and carried the ox-hide out ofdoorsand set
it down} and he lifted up his hands and prayed to
Zeus:
    “Father Zeus, if of your good will ye gods have
brought me over land ‘and sea to my own country,
when ye had afficted me sore, let some one of those
who are awaking utter a word of omen for me
within, and without let ἃ sign from Zeus be shown
besides.”
    So he spoke in prayer, and Zeus the counsellor
heard him, Straightway he thundered from gleam-
ing Olympus, from on high from out the clouds; and.
goodly Odysseus was glad. And a woman, grinding
at the mill, uttered a word of omen from within the
house hard by, where the mills of the shepherd of

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_292>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 107-133
thepeople were set. At these mills rylve women
in all were wont to ply their tasks, making meal of
 barley and of wheat, the marrow of men. Now the
others were sleeping, for they had ground their
 wheat, but she alone had not yet ceased, for she
 was the weakest of all. She now stopped her mill
 and spoke a word, a sign for her master :
    “Father Zeus, who art lord over gods and men,
 verily loud hast thou thundered from the starry sky,
yet nowhere is there any cloud: surely this is a sign
 that thou art showing to some man. Fulfil now even
 for wretched me the word that I shall speak.
the   wover this doy forthe last and late tse hold
their glad feast in the halls of Odysseus. They that
 have loosened my limbs with bitter Iabour,as I made
 them besley met, may they now sup their las”
    So she spoke, and goodly Odysseus was glad at
 the word of omen and at the thunder of Zeus, for
 he thought he had gotten vengeance on the guilty.
    ‘Now the other maidens in the fair palace of Odys-
seus had gathered together and were kindling on the
 hearth unwearied fire, and Telemachus rose from his
 bed, a godlike man, and put on his clothing. He
 slung his sharp sword about his shoulder, and beneath
 his shining feet he bound his fair sandals; and he
 took his mighty spear, tipped with sharp bronze, and
 went and stood upon the threshold, and spoke to
 Eurycleia:
    “Dear nurse, have ye honoured the stranger in
courhousewith bed and food, or does he lieall uncared
 for? For such is my mother's way, wise though she
is: in wondrous fashion she honours one of mortal
men, though he be the worse, while the better she
 sends unhonoured away.”
    x                                             283

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_294>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 134-163
      Then wise Eurycleia answered him: “In this
 matter, child, thou shouldest not blame her, who
 is without blame, He sat here and drank wine as
 long as he would, but for food he said he had no
 more hunger, for she asked him, But when he be-
 thought him of rest and sleep, she bade the maidens
 strew his bed. But he, as one wholly wretched and
hapless, would not sleep ona bed and under blankets,
 but on an undressed ox-hide and fleeces of sheep he
 slept in the fore-hall, andweflung over him a cloak.”
       0 she spoke, and ‘Telemachus went forth through
 the hall with hhisspear in his hand, and with him
 went two swift hounds. And he went his way to the
 place of assemblytojoin the company of the well-
 greaved Achaeans, but Eurycleia, the goodly lady,
 daughter of Ops, son of Peisenor, called to her
 maidens, saying:
      “Come, let some of you busily sweep the hall
 and sprinkle it, and throw on the shapely chairs
 coverlets of purple, and let others wipe all the tables,
 with sponges and cleanse the mixing-bowls and the
 well-wrought double cups, and others still go to the
spring for water and bring it quickly here. For the
 ‘wooers will not long be absent from the hall,but wi
 return right early; for itis a feast-day for all men.’
      So she spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed. Twenty of them went to the spring of
dark water, and the others busied themselves
in the house in skilful fashion,
   “Then in came the serving-men of the Achaeans,
who thereafter split logs of wood well and skilfully;
and the women came back from the spring. After
them came the swineherd, driving three boars which
were the best in all his herd. ‘These he let be to
                                                     285

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_296>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 164-r90
 feed in the fair courts, but himself spoke to
 Odysseus with gentle words:
    “Stranger, do the Achacans look on thee with any
 more regard, or do they dishonour thee in the halls
 as before?”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: “Ah, Eumaeus, I vould that the gods might
 take vengeance on the outrage wherewith these men
 in wantonness devise wicked folly in another's house,
 and have no place for shame.”
    Thus they spoke to one another. And near to
 them came Melanthius the goatherd, leading sh
goats that were the best in all the herds, to make a
 feast for the wooers, and two herdsmen followed
 with him, The goats he tethered beneath the
echoing portico, and himself spoke to Odysseus with
 taunting words:
      Stranger, wilt thou even now still be a plague to
us here in the hall, asking alms of men, and wilt
thou not begone? "'Tis plain, methinks, that we
two shall not part company till we taste one δὶ
other's fists, for thy begging is in no wise decent,
Also it is not here alone that there are feasts of the
‘Achaeans.”
    So he spoke, but Odysseus of many wiles made
no answer, but he shook his head in silence, ponder-
ing evil in the deep of his heart.
   ‘Besides these «third man exe, Philoetiu,aleader
of men, driving for the wooers a barren heifer and
fat she-goats. These had been brought over from
the mainland by ferrymen, who send other men, too,
on their way, whosoever comes to them. ‘The beasts
he tethered carefully beneath the echoing portico, but
himself came close to the swineherd and questioned
him, saying:                                        τὰ;

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_298>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 191-217
   “Who is this stranger, swincherd, who has newly
come to our house? From whatmen does he declare
 himself to be sprung? Where are his kinsmen and
his native fields? Hapless man! Yet troly          inform
he is like ἃ royal prince; howbeit the gods bring
to misery far-wandering men, whenever they spin for
them
  sagethe threads of rouble, even though they be
   ‘Therewith he drew near to Odysseus, and stretch-
ing forth his right hand in greeting, spoke and
addressed him with winged words:
   ‘Hall, Sir stranger ; may happy fortune be thine in
time to come, though now thou art the thrall of
many sorrows | Father Zeus, no other god is more
baneful than thou; thou hast no pity on men when
thou hast thyself given them birth, but bringest
them into misery and wretched pains. The sweat
broke out on me when 1 marked the man, and
my eyes are full of tears as I think of Odysseus; for
he, too, I ween, is clothed in such rags and is a
wanderer among men, if indeed he still lives and
Deholds the light of the sun. But if he isalready
dead and in the house of Hades, then woe is me for
blameless Odysseus,   whoset me over his cattle, when
I was yet a boy, in the land of the Cephallénians
‘And now these Wax past counting; in no other wise
could the breed of broad-browed cattle yield better
increase! for a mortal man. But strangers bid me
rive these now for themselves to eat, and they care
nothing for theson in the house, nor do they tremble
at the wrath of the gods, for they are eager now to
divide among themselves the possessions of our lord
that bas long been gone. Now, as for myself, the
    3The Greek word refers properly to ripening grain.
                                                       289

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_300>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 218-244
 heart in my breast keeps revolving this matter: a
 very evil thing it is, while the son lives, to depart
along with my cattle and go toa land of strangers,
 even to an alien folk; but this isworse still, to re-
‘main here and suffer woes in charge of cattle that
are given over to others. Aye, verily, long ago would
 T have fled and come to some otlier of the proud
kings, for now things are no more to be borne; but
still I think of that hapless one, if perchance he
might come back I know not whence, and make a
scattering of the wooers inhis house.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Nentherd, since tho seemest to be neither
an evil man nor a witless, and I see for myself that
thou hast gotten an understanding heart, therefore
will I speak out and swenr great oath to confirm
my words, Now be my witness Zeus above all gods,
and this hospitable board, and the hearth of noble
Odysseus to which I am come, that verily while thou
art here Odysseus shall come home, and thou shalt
see with thine eyes, if thou wilt, the slaying of the
‘wooers, who lord it here.””
    Then the herdsman of the cattle answered him:
«Ah, stranger, I would that the son of Cronos might
fulfi’'this word of thine!   ‘Then shouldest thou know
what manner of might is mine, and how my hands
obey.”
    ‘And even in like manner did Eumaeus pray to
allthe gods that wise Odysseus might come back to
  is own home.
    Thus they spoke to one another, but the wooers
meanwhile were plotting death and fate for Tele-
machus ;howbeit there came to them a bird on their
left, an eagle of lofty fight, clutching a timid dove,
‘Then Amphinomus spoke in thefr assembly, and said :
                                                    29.

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_302>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 245-72
    “Friends, this -plan of ours will not ran to our
 liking, even the slaying of Telemachus ;nay, let us
 bethink us of the feast.”
    So spoke Amphinomus, and his word was pleasing
 to them. Then, going into the house of godlike
Odysseus, they laid their cloaks on the chairs and
hhigh seats, and men fell toslaying great sheep and
fat goats, aye, and fatted swine, and the heifer of
the herd.” Then they roasted the entrails andserved
them out, and mixed wine in the bowls, ‘md the
swincherd handed out the cups. And Philoetius, a
leader of men, handed them bread in a beautiful
basket, and Melanthius poured them wine. So they
put forth their hands to the good cheer lying ready
before them.
    But Telemachus, with crafty thought, made Odys-
seus sit within the well-built hall by the threshold
ofstone, and placed for him a mean stool and a little
table. Beside him he set portions of the entrails
and poured wine in a cup of gold, and said to
him:
                         among the lords and drink thy
                     ings and blows of all the wooers
will I myself ward from thee; for this is no public
resort, but the house of Odysseus, and it was for me
that he won it, And for your part, ye wooers, refrain
your minds from rebukes and blows, tht no strife
Ὅτ quarrel may arise,’
    So he spoke, and they all bit their lips and mar-
velled   st Telemachus for that he spoke belly; and
Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke among them,
saying:
    ἐς Hard tnough it be, Achaeans, let us accept the
word of Telemachus, though boldly he threatens
                                                   393

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_304>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 273-299
us in his speech. For Zeus, son of Cronos, did not
suffer it, else would we ere now have silenced him
in the halls, elear-voiced talker though he
    So spoke Antinous, but Telemachus paid no heed
tohis words. Meanwhile the heralds were leading
through the city the holy hecatomb of the gods, and
the long-haired Achaeans gathered together beneath
ἃ shady grove of Apollo, the archer-god.
    Bat when they had roasted the outer flesh and
drawn it off the spits, they divided the portions and
feasted a glorious feast. And by Odysseus those who
served set a portion equal to that which they re-
ceived themselves, for so Telemachus commanded,
the dear son of divine Odysseus.
    But the proud wooers Athene would in no wise
suffer to abstain from bitter outrage, that pain might
sink yet deeper into the heart of Odysseus, son of
Laertes. There was among the wooers a man with
hhis heart set on lawlessness—Ctesippus was his name,
and in Same was his dwelling—who, trusting for.
sooth in hisboundless wealth, wooed the wife of
‘Odysseus, that had long been gone. He it was who
now spoke among the haughty wooers:
    “ρα me, ye proud wooers, that I may say some-
what. A portion has the stranger Iong had, an equal
portion, as is meet ; for it is not well nor just to rob
of their due the guests of Telemachus,’ whosoever
he be that comes to this house. Nay, come, I too
will give him ἃ stranger’s-gift, that he in turn may
give a present either fo the bath-womanorto some
other of the slaves who are in the house of godlike
Odysseus.”
     0 saying, he hurled with strong hand the hoof of
                                                    295

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_306>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 300-327
‘an ox, taking it up from the basket where it lay.
But Odysseus avoided it with a quick turn of his
head, and in his heart he smiled ἃ right grim and
bitter smile; and the ox’s hoof struck the well-built
wall. ‘Then Telemachus rebuked Ctesippus, and said:
   “ Ctesippus, verily this thing fell out more to thy
soul's prot." Thou didetnot smite the stranger, for
he himself avoided thy missile, else surely would 1
have struck thee through the middle with my sharp
spear, and instead of a wedding feast thy father
‘would have been busied with a faneral feast in this
land. Wherefore let no man, I warn you, make a
show of frowardness in my house; for now 1 mark
and understand all things, the good and the evil,
whereas heretofore I was but a child. But none the
less we still endure to see these deeds, while sheep
are slaughtered, and wine drunk, and breed con-
sumed, for hard’ it is for one man torestrain many.
Yet come, no longer work me harm of your evil
wills, But if you are minded even now to slay me
myself with the sword, even that would I choose,
and it would be better far to die than continually to
behold these shameful deeds, strangers mishandled
and men dragging the handmaidens in shameful
fashion through the fair hall.”
   So he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence,
Dut at last there spoke among them Agelaus, son
of Damastor:
   “Friends, no man in answer to what has been
fairly spoken would wax wroth and make reply with
wrangling words, Abuse not any more the stranger
nor any of the slaves that are in the house of divine
Odysseus. But to Telemachus and his mother I
would speak a gentle word, if perchance it may find
                                                   391

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_308>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 328-352
favour in the minds of both. So longasthe hearts
ἴα your breasts had hope that wise Odysseur would
return to his own house, so long there was no
ground for blame that you waited, and restrained
the wooers in your halis; for this was the better
course, had Odysseus returned and come back to his
house. But now this is plain, that he will return no
‘more. Nay then, come, sit by thy mother and tell
her this, namely that she must wed him whosoever is
the best man, and who offers the most gifts; to the
‘end that thou mayest enjoy in peace all the heritage
of thy, fathers, eating and drinking, and that she
may keep the house of another.””
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Nay, by
Zeus, Agelans, and by the woes of my father, who
somewhere far from Ithaca has perished or is wan-
dering, in no wise do I delay my mother's marriage,
but Ibid her wed what man she will, and I offer
besides gifts past counting. But I am’ ashamed to
rive her forth from the hall against her will by a
word of compulsion. May God never bring such a
thing to pass.
   So spoke Telemachus, but among the wooers
Pallas Athene roused unquenchable laughter, and
turned their wits awry. And now they laughed with
alien lips, and all bedabbled with blood was the flesh
they ate,! and their eyes were filled with tears and
their spirits set on wailing. ‘Then among them
spoke godlike Theoclymenus:
   “Ah, wretched men, what evil is this that you
suffer?’ Shrouded in night areyour heads and your
faces and your knees beneath you; kindled is the
angus dnd
aah   and denttetion,
           folk-pctry of various peoples as indicative of
                                                     299

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_310>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 353-380
sound of wailing, bathed in tears are your cheeks,
and sprinkled with blood are the walls and the fair
rafters. And full of ghosts is the porch and full the
court, of ghosts that hasten down to Erebus beneath
‘the darkness, and the sun has perished out of heaven
and an evil mist hovers over all.”
   So he spoke, but they all laughed merrily at him,
And among them Eurymachus, son of Polybus, was
the first to speak:
   “Mad is the stranger that has newly come from
abroad. Quick, ye youths, convey him forth out of
doors to go his way to the place of assembly, since
here he finds it like night.”
   Then godlike Theoclymenus answered him:
“Burymachus, in no wise do I bid thee give me
guides for my way. I have eyes and ears and my
tyro feet, anda mind in. my Breast that is in no wise
meanly fashioned. With these will I go forth out of
doors, for I mark evil coming upon you which not one
of the wooers may escape or avoid, of all you who
in the house of godlike Odysseus insult men and
devise wicked folly.’
   So saying, he went forth from the stately halls
and came to Piraeus, who received him with a ready
heart. But all the wooers, looking at one another,
sought to provoke Telemachus by laughing at
‘guests. And thus would one of the proud youtis
speak:
 PeTelemachus, no wan is more unlucky in his
   sts than thou, seeing that thou keepest such a
ity vageboad ce thisman‘here, alweye wanting
bread and wine, and skilled neither in the works of
peace nor those of war, but a mere burden of the
earth, And this other fellow again stood up to
                                                  301

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_312>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 381-394
prophesy. Nay, if thou wouldst hearken to me it
would be better far: letusfling these strangers on
board a benched ship, and send them to the Sici-
lians, whenee they would           bring? thee ina fitting
price.
    So spake the wooers, but he paid no heed to
their words. Nay, in silence he watched his father,
ever waiting until he should pat forth his hands
upon the shameless wooers,
    Bat the daughter of earius, wise Penelope, had
set her beautiful chair over against them, and heard
‘the words of each man in the hall. For they had
made ready their meal in the midst of their laughing,
ἃ sweet meal, and one to satisfy the heart, for they
had slain many beasts. But never could meal have
been more graceless than a supper such as a goddess
and a mighty man were soon to set before them, For
unprovoked they were contriving deeds of shame.
   αιἄλφοιν (he,ἀλφοιον) is κα
plural     veroἐκGamanted by th
ξείνου in ine $82 to τὸρ ξεῖνον, Ib acems impossible to
Ssmame "the slo” an subject to ἔλφοι.




                                                     303

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_314>>>
BOOK      XXI

    Bor the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, put it
 into the heart of ‘the daughter of Icarius, wise
 Penelope, to set before the wooers in the halls of
 Odysseus the bow and the gray iron, to be a contest
 and the beginning of death. She climbed the high
stairwaytoher chamber, and took the bent key in her
strong hand—a goodly key of bronze, and on it was
a handle of ivory. And she went her way with her
 handmaidens to a store-room, far remote, where lay
the treasures of her lord, bronze and gold and iron,
 wrought with toil. And there lay the back-bent
bow and the quiver that held the arrows, and many.
arrows were in it, fraught with groanings—gifts
which a friend of Odysseus had given him when
he met him onee in Lacedaemon, even Iphitus, son of
Eurytus, a man like unto the immortals. They two
had’ met one another in Messene in the house of
wise Ortilochus. Odysseus verily had cometocollect
‘a debt which the whole people owed him, for the
men of Messene had lifted from Ithaca in their
benched ships three hundred sheep and the shep-
herds with them. It was on an embassy in quest of
these that Odysseus had come a far journey, while he
was but a youth for his father and the other elders
hed sent Rim forth, And Tphitus, on his'pact, had
‘comein search of twelve brood mares, which he had
Jost, with sturdy mules at the teat; but to him
                                                 305

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_316>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 24-47
thereafter did they bring death and doom, when he
came to the stout-hearted son of Zeus, ‘the man
Heracles, who well knew? deeds of daring; for
Heracles slew him, his guest though he was, in his
‘own house, ruthlessly, and had regard neither for
the wrath of the gods nor for the table which he
had set before him, but slew the man thereafter, and
himself Kept the’ stout-hoofed mares in his halls.
 Tt was while asking for these that, Iphitus met
Odysseus, and gave him the bow, which of old great
Eurytus had been wont to bear, and had leftathis
death to his son in his lofty house. And to Iphitus
Odysseus gave a sharp sword and a mighty spear, as
the beginning of loving friendship ;yet they never
knew one another at the table, for ere that might
be the son of Zeushad slain Iphitus, son of Eurytus,
‘aman like unto the immortals, who gave Odysseus
‘the bow. This bow goodly Odysseus, when going
forth τὸ war, would never take with’ him on the
black ships, but it lay in his halls athome as a
memorial of a dear friend, and he carried it in his
own land.
    Now when the fair lady had come to the
store-room, and had stepped upon the threshold of
‘oak, which of old the carpenter had skilfully planed
and made straight tothe line—thereon had he also
fitted door-posts, and set on them bright doors—
straightway she quickly loosed the thong? from the
handle and thrust in the key, and with sure aim shot

‘wasforced back bythe key, which prosumably fitted the elit
 in the bolt with nieety ; hele the phrase “with sure air.”
                                                          37

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_318>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 48-79
 ack the bolts, And as a bull bellows when grazing
 inameadow, even so bellowed the fair doors, smitten
 by the key} and quickly they flew open before her.
 Then she stepped upon the high floor, where the
 chests stood in which fragrant raiment was stored,
 and stretched out her hand from thence and took
 from its peg the bow together with the bright case
 which surrounded it. And there she sat down and
 laid the case upon her knees and wept aloud, and
 took out the bow of her lord. But when she had
 had her fil of tearful wailing, she went her way to
 the hall, to the company of the lordly wooers,
 bearing in her hands the back-bent bow and the
 quiver that held the arrows, and many arrows were
 in it, fraught with groanings. And by her side her
maidens bore a chest, wherein lay abundance of iron
and bronze, the battlegear of her lord. Now
 when the fair lady reached the wooers, she stood
by the door-post of the well-built hall, holdin,
before her face her shining veil; and a faithful hand-
‘maid stood on either side of her. Then straightway
she spoke among the wooers, and said
    “Hear me, ye proud wovers, who have beset this
house to eat and drink ever without end, since its
master has long been gone, nor could you find any
other plea to urge, save only asdesiringtowed me
and take me to wife, Nay, come now, ye wooers,
sincethisisshewn to be your prize. I will set before
you the great bow of divine Odysseus, and whosoever
Shall most easily string the bow in his hands and
shoot an arrow through all twelve axes, with him
will I go, and forsake this house of my wedded life,
ἃ house most fair and filled with livelihood, which,
methinks I shall ever remember even in my dreams.”
         Ὁ. She means herself, not the bow jφῇ 108.
                                                    309

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_320>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 80-110
    So she spoke, and bade Eumaens, the goodly swine-
 herd, set for the wooers the bow and the grey iron,
 ‘And, bursting into tears, Eumacus took them and
 hid them down, and in another place the neatherd
 rept, when hesaw the bowof hislord. ‘Then Antinons
 rebuked them, andspoke, and addressed them:
    «Foolish boors, who mind only the things of the
 day! Wretched pair, why now do you shed tears,
 and trouble the soulin the breast of ‘the lady, whose
 heart even as it is lies low in pain, seeing that she
hhas lost her dear husband? Nay, sit and feast in
silence, or else go forth and weep, and leave the bow
here behind as a decisive? contest for the woocrs ;
for not easily, methinks, is this polished bow to be
strung. For there is no man among all these here
such asOdysseus was, and 1 myself saw him. For 1
remember him, though I was still but a child.”
    So he spoke, but the heart in his breast hoped that
he would string the bow and shoot an arrow through.
the iron. Yet verily he was to be the firsttotaste
of an arrow from the hands of noble Odysseus, whom.
then he, as he sat in the halls, was dishonouring, and
urging on all his comrades.
    ‘Then among them spoke the strong and mighty
Telemachus :“ Lo now, ofa truth Zeus, son of Cronos,
has made me witless. "My dear mother, for all that
she is wise, declares that she will follow another lord,
forsaking this house; yet I laugh, and am glad with
‘a witless mind. Come then, ye wooers, since this
is shewn to be your prize, a lady, the like ofwhom is,
not now in the Achaean land, neither in sacred Pylos,
nor in Argos, nor in Mycene, nor yet in Ithaca itself,
nor in the dark mainland, 'Nay, but of yourselves
you know this—what need have I to praise my
  Ὁ Others render “deadly”or “terrible” ; but t80 Monro.
                                                      3m

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_322>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 111-136
 mother? Come then, put not the matter aside with
 ‘excuses, nor any more turn away too long from the
 drawing of the bow, that we may see the issue. Yea,
 and I would myself make trial of yon bow. If T
shall string it and shoot an arrow through the iron,
 it will not vex me that my honoured mother should
 leave this house and go along with another, seeing
that I should be left here able now to wield the
goodly battle-gear of my father.”
    With this he flung the scarlet cloak from off his
ack, and sprang up erect; and he laid his sharp
sword from of his shoulders, First then he set. up
the axes, when he had dug a trench, one long trench
for all, and made it straight to the line, and about
them ‘he stamped in the earth. And amazement
seized all who saw him, that he set them out so
orderly, though before he had never seen them.
Then he went and stood upon the threshold, and
began to try the bow. Thrice he made it quiver in
 his eagerness to draw it, and thrice he relaxed his
effort, though in his heart he hoped to string the
bow and shoot an arrow through the iron. And now
at the last he would haply have strung it in his
might, asfor the fourth time he sought to draw up
the string, but Odysseus nodded in dissent, and
checked him in his eagerness. Then the strong and
mighty Telemachus spoke among them again :
    Out on it, even in days to come shall I be a
coward and a weakling, or else I am too young, and
have not yet trust in my might to defend'me against
a man, wien one waxes wroth withoutacause. But,
come now, you that are mightier than I, make trial
of the bow, and let us end the contest.”
   So saying, he set the bow from him on the ground,
                                                 315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_324>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 137-163
leaning it against the jointed, polished door, and hard
by he leaned the swift arrow against the fair bow-
and then sat down again on the seat from which he
had risen.
   Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke among
them: “Rise up in order, all you of our company,
from left to right, beginning from the place where
the cupbearer pours the wine.”
   So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
them, Then first arose Leiodes, son of Oenops,
who vas their soothsayer, and ever sat by the fair
mixing-bowl in the innermost part of the hall;
deeds of wanton fully were hateful to him alone,
and he was full of indignation at all the wooers.
He it was who now first took the bow and swift
arrow, and he went and stood upon the threshold,
and began to try the bow; but he could not string
it. Ere that might be his hands grew weary, as he
sought to draw up the string, his unworn delicate
hands; and he spoke among the wooers: =
   “Friends, it is not I that shall string it; let
another take it, For many princes shall this bow
rob of spirit and of life, since verily it is better far
to die than to live on and fail of that for the sake
of which we ever gather here, waiting expectantly
day after day. Now many a man even hopes in his
heart and desires to wed Penelope, the wife of
Odysseus; but when he shall have made trial of the
bow, and seen the outcome, thereafter let him woo
some other of the fair-robed Achaean women with
his gifts, and seck to win her; then should Penelope
wed   him who offers most, and who comes as her
fated lord.”
   So he spoke, and set the bow from him, leaning it
     L                                               315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_326>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 164-192
against the jointed, polished door, and hard by he
leaned the swift arrow against the fair bow-tip, and
then sat down on the seat from which he had risen.



mother did not bear thee of such’ strength as to
draw a bow and shoot arrows; but others of the
lordly wooers will soon string it.”
   So he spoke, and called to Melanthins, the
goatherd: ‘Come now, light a fire in the’ hall,
Melanthius; and set by it great seat with a fleece
upon it, and bring forth a great cake of the fat that
is within, that we youths may warm the bow, and
anoint it with fat, and so make trial of it, and end
the contest.”
             ke, and Melanthius straightway rekindled
                 fire, and brought and placed by it a
     stseat with a’ fleece upon it, and he brought
 forth a great cake of the fat that was within.
‘Therewith the youths warmed the bow, and made
trial of it, but they could not string it, for they
were far lacking in strength.
   Now Antinous was still persisting and          godlike
Rorymuchos, leer of thewoven who were τὸ
the best in valiance ;but those other two had gone
forth both together from the hall, the neatherd and
the swineherd of divine Odysseus; and after them
Odysseus himself went forth from the house, But
when they were now outside the gates and the court,
he spoke and addressed them with gentle words:
                                                  317

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_328>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 193-220
   “Neatherd, and thou too swineherd, shall I tell
you something or keep it tomyself? Nay, my spirit
bids me tell it. What manner of men would you be
to defend Odysseus, if he should come from’ some-
where thus suddenly, and some god should bringhim?
Would you bear aid to the wooers or to Odysseusὃ
Speak out as your heart and spirit bid you.”
   Then the herdsmen of the eattle answered him :
“Father Zeus, oh that thou wouldest. fulfil this
wish! Grant that that man may come back, and
that some god may guide him. Then shouldest
thou know what manner of might is mine, and how
my hands obey.”
   ‘And even in like manner did Eumacus pray to all
the gods that wise Odysseus might come back to his
‘own home,
   Butwhenhe knew with certainty      themindofthese,
he made answer, and spoke to them again, saying:
   © At home now in truth am I here before you, my
very self, After many grievous toils I am come in
the twentieth year to my native land. And I know
that by you two alone of all my thralls is my coming
desired, but ofthe rest have I heard not one praying
that I might come back again to my home. But to
you two will I tell the truth, even as it shallbe. If
ἃ god shall subdue the lordly wooers unto me, I will
bring you each     wife, and will give you possessions
and a house built near my own, and thereafter you
two shall be in my eyes friends and brothers of Tele-
machus. Nay, come, more than this, I will shew you
also a manifest sign, that you may know me well and
be assured in heart, even the sear of the wound which
long ago a boar dealt me with his white tusk, when
I went to Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.’
                                                   319

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_330>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 221-248
   So saying, he drew aside the rags from the great
sear, And when the two had seen it, and bad
marked each thing well, they flung their arms about
tviso Odysseus, and wept and they Kissed his: head
and shoulders inloving welcome. And even in like
manner”   Odysseus Kissed their heads snd. hands.
‘And now the light of the sun would have gone down
tpon thelrthem,weeping,
checked          and et had not γιοῦ hlmecl?
   “Cease now from weeping and wailing, lest some
one  come forth from the hal and see us, sad make tt
known within as well. But go within one after
another, not all together, I first and you thereafter,
and let this be madeasign. All the rest, as many
as are lordly wooers, will not suffer the bow and the
quiver to be given to me; but do thou, goodly
place 8 Ἰὰ my hands, and bid the women bar the
‘Eumaeus, as thou bearest the bow through the halls,

 Elose-fiting doors of their hall. And if any one of
‘them hears groanings or the din of men within
oor    walls, lof them not rash out, but remain where
they are in silence at their work. But to thee,
goodly Philoetius, do I give charge to fasten with a
 bur the gate of the court, and swiftly to cast a cord
‘upon it.”
     So saying, he entered the stately house, and went
‘And     ‘the two slives of divine Odysseus went in es
and sat down on the seat from               which he had risen.

wel‘Eurymachus          was now handling the bow, warming
stbutonnotthisevenideso andwas onhe that in the light of the firey
                                     able to string it; and in his
poble heart be grosned, and witha barat of anger he
spoke and addressed them :
                                                             321

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_332>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 249-275
    “Out on it! Verily I am grieved for myself and
foryou all. ΤῈ is in no wise for the marriage that 1
 mourn so greatly, grieved though I am; for there
 are many other Achaean women, some in sea-girt
 Ithacaitself,and some in other cities ;but I mourn
 if in truth We fall so far short of godlike Odysseus
 in might, seeing that we cannot string his bow.
 This is ἃ reproach for men that are yet to be to
 hear of.”
    Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, answered him :
 “ Eurymachus, this shall not   beso,and thou of thyself
too knowest it. For to-day throughout the land is
 the feast of the god'—a holy feast. Who then
 would bend a bow? Nay, quietly set it by; and as
 for the axes—what if we should let them all stand as,
 they are? Noman, methinks, will come to the hall
“of Odysseus, son of Laertes, and carry them off.
 Nay, come, let the bearer pour drops for libation into
‘thecups, that we may pour libations, and lay aside
 the curved bow. And in themorning bid Melanthfus,
 the gontherd, to bring she-goate, far the best in all
 the herds, that we may lay thigh-pieces on the altar
 of Apollo, the famed archer; and so make trial of the
 bow, and end the contest.”
    So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
 them. Then the heralds poured water over their
 hands, and youths filled the bowls brim full of drink,
 and served out to al, pouring fist drops for bation
 into the cups. But when they had poured libations,
 and had drunk to their heart’s content, then with
 grafty mind Odysseus of many wiles spoke among
 them:
    Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
          A ie. ofApollo, thearcher-gods of: 1. 257.
                                                     313

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_334>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 276-302
 may say what the heart in my breast bids me, To
 Eurymachus most of all do Imake my prayer, and
to godlike Antinous, since this word also of his was
spoken aright, namely that for the present you cease
to try the bow, and leave the issue with the gods ;
and in the moming the godwillgive the vietory to
whomsoever he will, But come, give me the polished
bow, that in your midst 1 may’ prove my hands and
strength, whether I have yet might such as was of
old in my supple limbs, or whether by now my
wanderings and lack of food have destroyed it.”
   So he spoke, and they all waxed exceeding wroth,
fearing lest he might string the polished bow. And
Antinous rebuked him, and spoke and addressed
him:
   “Ah, wretched stranger, thou hast no wit, no, not
a trace. Art thou not content that thou feastest
undisturbed in our proud company, and lackest
naught of the banquet, but hearest our words and
our speech, while no other that is a stranger and
beggar hears our words? It is wine that wounds thee,
honey-sweet wine, which works harm to others too,
if one takes it in great gulps, and drinks beyond
measure. It was wine that made foolish even the
centaur, glorious Eurytion, in the hall of great
hearted Peirithous, when he went to the Lapithae;
and when his hearthad been made foolish with wine,
in his madness he wrought evil in the house of Pei
thous. Then grief seized the heroes, and they les
up and dragged him forth through the gateway,
when they had shorn offhisears and his nostrils with
the pitiless bronze, and he, made foolish in heart,
went his way, bearing with him the curse of his sin
in the folly of his heart, From hence the feud arose
                                                 3:5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_336>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 303-332
 between the centaurs and mankind; but it was for
   imself first that he found evil, being heavy with
 wine. Even so do I declare great harm for thee, if
 thou shalt string the bow, for thou shalt meet with
 no kindness at the hands of anyone in our land, but
we will send thee straightway in black ship to king
 Echetus, the maimer of all men, from whose hands
‘thou shalt in no wise escape alive. Nay, then, be
still, and drink thy wine, and do not strive with men
younger than thou.’
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “ Antinous,
it is not well nor just to rob of their due the guests
of Telemachus, whosoever he be that comes to this
house. Dost thou think that, if yon stranger strings
the great bow of Odysseus, trusting in his strength
and his might, he will lead me to his home, and
make me his wife? Nay, he himself, I ween, has
not this hope in his breast; so let no one of you on
this account sit at meat here in sorrow of heart;
nay, that were indeed unseemly.”
    Then Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered her:
“Daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, it is not that
we think the man will lead thee to his home—that
were indeed unseemly—but that we dread the talk of
men and women, lest hereafter some base fellow
among the Achaeans should say: «Truly men weaker
far are wooing the wife of a noble man, and cannot
string his polished bow. But another, a beggar, that
came on his wanderings, easily strung the bow, and
shot through the iron.’ Thus will men speak, but
to us this would become a reproach.”
   Then wise Penelope answexed him again: “ Eury-
‘machus, in no wise can there be good reportinthe
land for men who dishonour and consume the house
                                                   327

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_338>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 333-359
of prince. Why then do you make this matter?
ἃ reproach? This stranger is right tall and well-
 uilt;.and declares himself to be born the son of a
good father. Nay, come, give him the polished bow
find let us see. For thus will I speak out to thee,
nd this word shallverily be brought to pass; if he
shall string the bow, and Apollo grant him glory, I
 will clothe him with'a close     andἐμεῖο, fir raiment,
and will give him a sharp javelin to ward off dogs
 and men, and a two-edged sword; and I will give
him sandals to bind beneath his feet, and will
send him whithersoever his heart and ‘spirit bid
him go.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered her: “My
mother, as for the bow, no man of the Achaeans has
a better right than I to giveorto deny it to whom-
soever I will—no, not all those who lord it in
rocky Ithaca, or in’the islands towards horse-pastur-
ing Elis. No man among these shall thwart me
against my will, even though I should wish to give
this bow outright to the stranger to bear away with
him, But do thou go to thy chamber, and busy
thyself with thine own tasks, the loom and the distaf,
and bid thy handmaids ply’ their tasks. ‘The bow
shall be for men, for all, but’ most of all for me;
     ice mine is the authority in the house.”
    She then, seized with wonder, went back to her
chamber, for she laid to heart the wise saying of her
son, Up      toher upper chamber she went with her
handmaids, and then bewailed Odysseus, her dear
husband, until lashing-eyed Athene cast sweet sleep
upon her eyelids.
   ‘Now the goodly swineherd had taken the curved
    +} ke, that the stranger should handle the bow.
                                                    329

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_340>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 360-387
 bow and was bearing it, but the wooers all cried out
 in the halls. And thus would one οἱ the proud
youths speak :
    * Whither, pray, art thou beating the curved bow,
miserable swineherd, thou man distraught? Soon by
thy swine, alone and apart from men, shall the swift
 hounds devour thee—hounds thyself didst rear—if
 but Apollo be gracious to us, and the otlier immortal
gods.”
    So theyspoke, and he set down the bow,ashe bore
it, in that very place, seized with fearbecause many
                 ix out aloud in the halls. But ‘Tele~
inachus on the other side called out threateningly :
    “Father, bear on the bow—soon «shalt μου
   1¢ giving heed to all—lest, younger though I am,
Idrive tice to the field, and pelt thee with stones +
for in strength T am the better. I would that I
were even s0 much better in strength and might
than all the wooers that are in the house; then
‘woul I soon send many a one forth from our house
to gohis way in evi case;for they devisewickedness.”
     0 he spoke, but all ‘the wooers laughed meriily
at him, and relaxed the bitterness of their anger
against Telemachus, Howbeit the swineherd bore
the bow through the hall, and came up to wise
Odysseus, and put it in his hands. ‘Then he ealled
forth the nurse Eurycleia, and said to her:
   “Telemachus bids thee, wise Euryeleia, to bar
the close-itting doors of ‘the hall, and it any of
‘the women heat within groanings or the din of men
within our walls, let them not rush out, but remain
where they are in silence at their work.”
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged
and she barred the doors of the stately halls.
                                               331

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_342>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 388-414
    Bat fn silence Philoetius hastened forth from
 the house, and barred the gates of the well-fenced
 court. Now there lay beneath the portico the
 cable of a curved ship, made of byblus plant, where-
 with he made fast the gates, and then himself went
 within, Thereafter he came and sat down on the
 seat from which he hed risen, and gazed upon
 Odysseus; now he was already handling the bow,
 turning it round and round, and trying it this way
 and that, lest worms might have eaten the horns,
while itslord was afar. And thus woul one speak
 with a glance at his neighbour:
    “Verily he has a shrewd eye, and is ἃ cunning
Knave with a bow. It may be haply that he has
himself such bows stored away at home, or else he is
minded to make one, that he thus turns it this way
‘and that in his hans, the raseally vagabond.”
    ‘And again another of the proud youths would say:
«Would that the fellow might find profitin just such
measure as he shall prove able ever to string this
bow.”
    So spoke the wooers, but Odysseus of many wiles,
as soon as he had lifted the great bow and scanned
it on every side—even as when a man well-skilled
in the lyre and in song easily stretches the string
‘about a new peg, making fast at either end the
twisted sheep-gut—so without effort. did Odysseus
string the great bow. And he held it in his right
hand, and tried the string, which sang sweetly be-
neath his touch, like to aswallow in tone. But w
the wooers came great grief, and the faces of them
changed colour, and Zeus thundered loud, shewing
forth his signs. Then glad at heart was the much-
enduring, goodly Odysseus that the son of erooked-
                                                  333

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_344>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 415-434
 counselling Cronos sent him an omen, and he took up
 ‘ swift arrow, which lay by him on the table,bare,
 but the others were stored within the hollow quiver,
 even those of which the Achacans were soon totaste.
‘This he took, and laid upon the bridge of the bow,
 and drew the bow-string and the notched arrow
 even from the chair where he sat, and let fy the
shaft with sure aim, and did not miss the end of the
handle of one of the axes, but clean through and out
at the end passed the arrow weighted with bronze.
 But he spoke to Telemachus, saying:
    “Telemachus, the stranger that sits in thy halls
brings no shame upon thee, nor in any wise did I
miss the mark, or labour long in stringing the bow ;
still is my strength unbroken—not as the wooers
seornfully taunt me. But now it is time that supper
too be made ready for the Achaeans, while yet there
is light, andthereafter must yet other sport be made
‘with song and with the lyre; for these things are
the accompaniments of a feast.”
   He spoke, and made a sign with his brows, and
Telemachus, the dear son of divine Odysseus, girt
about him his sharp sword, and took his spear in his
grasp, and stood by the chair at his father's side,
armed with gleaming bronze.




                                               335

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_346>>>
BOOK       XXII

    Bur Odysseus of many wiles stripped off his rage
and sprang to the great threshold with the bow
and the quiver full of arrows, and poured forth the
swift arrows right there before his fect, and spoke
among the wooers :
   “Lo, now at last. is this decisive contest ended ;
and now as for another mark, which till now no man
hhag ever smitten, I will know if haply Imay strike it,
and Apollo grant me glory.”
    He spoke, and aimed a bitter arrow at Antinous.
Now he was on the point of raising to his lips ἃ fair
goblet, a two-cared cup of gold, and was even now
hhandling it, that he might drink of the wine, and
death was not in his thoughts. For who among men
that sat at meat could think that one man simong
λον, how strong sever he were, would bring upon
himself evil death and black fate? But Odysseus
took aim, and smote him with an arrow in the throat,
and clean out through the tender neck passed the
point; he sank to one side, and the cup fell from
his hand as he was smitten, and straightway up
through his nostrils there came a thick jet of the blood
of man; and quickly he thrust the table from him
with a kick of his foot, and spilled all the food on
the floor, and the bread androast flesh were befouled.
Then into uproar broke the wooers through the halls,
as they saw the man fallen, and from their high seats
  2Or, taking εἴσομαι asfut.ofεἶμι,“T will make for another
τονε                                                   337

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_348>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΤΙ. 23-46
 they sprang, driven in fear through the hall, gazing
 everywhere along the well-built walls; but nowhere
 was there a shield or mighty spear to seize. But
 they railed at Odysseus with angry words :
     “Stranger, to thy cost dost thou shoot at
 men} never again shalt thou take part in other
 contests; now is thy utter destruction sure. Aye, for
 ‘thou hast now slain a man who was far the best
 of the youths in Ithaca; therefore shall vultures
 devour thee here.”                           Ξ
    ‘So spoke! ench man, for verily they thought that
 he had not slain the man wilfully; and in their foll
 ‘they knew not this, that over themselves one and all
 the cords of destruction had been made fast. ‘Then
 with an angry glance from beneath his brows
 Odysseus of many wiles answered them :
    Ye dogs, ye thought that I should never more
 ‘come home from the land ofthe Trojans, seeing that
 ye wasted my house, and lay with the maidservants
 by force, and while yet I lived covertly wooed my
 wife, having no fear of the gods, who hold brosd
 heaven, nor of the indignation of men, that is to be
 hereafter. Now over you one and all have the cords
of destruction been made fast.”
    So he spoke, and thereat pale fear seized them
all, and each man gazed about to see how he might
escape utter destruction Burymachus alone answered
 him, and said :
    “If thou art indeed Odysseus of Ithace, come
home again, this that thou sayest is just regarding
all that the Achaeans have wrought—many deeds of
   Ὁ Or, M90 guessed” ; wethe note on xix, 208,
   5 OF tho preposition may be local, "ecized the Limbs οἵ
all beneath ‘them.” The samo ambiguity oooure in other
passages,
                                                       339

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_350>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 47-73
 wanton folly in thy halls and many in the field. But
 he now lies dead, who was to blame for all, even
 ‘Antinous ;for it was he who set on foot these deeds,
 not so much through desire or need of the marriage,
 Dat with another purpose, which the son of Cronos did
not bring to pass for him, that in the land of settled
 Ithaca he might himself be king, and might liein
 wait for thy son and slay him. But now he lies slain,
teas his due, but do thon spare the people that are
thine own ; and we will hereafter go about the land
and get thee recompense for all that has been drunk
and eaten in thy halls, and will bring each man for
himself in requital the worth of twenty oxen, and
pay thee back in bronze and gold until thy heart be
‘warmed ;but till then no one could blame thee that
thou art wroth.”
   Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows.
Odysseus of many wiles answered him: Rury-
machus, not even if you should give me in requital
all that your fathers left you, even all that you now
have, and should add other wealth theréto from
whence yemight, not even so would I henceforth
stay my hands from slaying until the wooers had paid
the full price of all their transgression, Now it lies
before you to fight in open fight, or to flee, if any
‘man may avoid death and the fates ; but many aone,
methinks, shall not escape from utter destruetion.”
   So he spoke, and their knees were loosened where
they stood, and their hearts melted and Eurymachus
spoke among them again a second time:
   “Friends, for you see that this man will not stay
his invincible hands, but now that he has got the
polished bowand the quiver, will shoot from the smooth
threshold until he slays us all, come, let us take
                                                   340

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_352>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 74-100
  thought of battle. Draw your swords, and hold the
  tables before you against the arrows that bring swift
  death, and let us all have at him in a body, in the
  hope that we may thrust him from the threshold and
 the doorway, and go throughout the city, and so the
 alarm be swiftly raised ;then should this fellow soon
 have shot his last.”
    So saying, he drew his sharp sword of bronze,
 two-edged, and sprang upon Odysseus with aterrible
 cry, but at the same instant goodly Odysseus let fy
 ‘an arrow, and struck him upon the breast beside the
 nipple, and fixed the swift shaft in his liver. And
 Enrymachus let the sword fall from his hand to the
 ground, and writhing over the table he bowed and
 fell, and spilt upon the floor the food and the two-
 handled cup. With his brow he beat the earth in
 agony of soul, and with both his feet he spurned and
shook the chair, and a mist was shed over his eyes.
    Then Anphinomus,       madeat glorons Odystees,
rushing straight upon him, and had drawn his. st
sword, in hope that Odysseus might give way eos
him from the door. But Telemachus was too quick
for him, and east, and smote him from behind with
his bronze-tipped spear between the shoulders, and
Grove it through his breast;and he fell with a thud,
and strack the ground full with his forehead. But
Telemachus sprang back, leaving the long spear
where it was, fixed in Amphinomus, for he greatly
feared lest, as he sought to draw forth the long
spear, one of the Achaeans might rush upon him
and stab him with his sword, or deal him a blow as
he stooped over the corpse.” So he started to run,
tnd came quickly to his dear father, and standing by
his side spoke to him winged words:
                                                  343,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_354>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. τουτταό
   “Father, now will I bring thee a shield and two
spears and a helmet all of bronze, well fitted to the
temples, and when I come back f will arm myself,
and will give armour likewise to the swineherd and
yon neatherd ;for it is better to be clothed in
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
said: Run, and bring them, while yet [have arrows
to defend me, lest they thrust me from the door,
alone as I am.”
   So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and went his way to the store-chamber
where the glorious arms were stored. Thence he
took four shields and eight spears and four helmets
of bronze, with thick plumes of horse-hair; and he
bore them forth, and quickly came to his dear father.
‘Then first of all he himself girded the bronze about.
his body, and even in like manner the two slaves put
fon them the beautiful armour, and took their stand
on       either side of Odysseus, the wise and crafty-
minded.
   But he, so long as he had arrows to defend him,
would ever aim, and smite the wooers one by one
in his house, and they fell thick and fast. But when
the arrows failed the prince, as he shot, he leaned
the bow against the door-post of the well-built hall,
and let it stand against the bright. entrance wall.
For himself, he put about his shoulders a four-fold
shield, and set on his mighty head a well-wrought
helmet with horse-hair plume, and terribly did the
plome wave above ‘him; and he took two mighty
spears, tipped with bronze.
   Now there was in the well-built wall a certain
                                                   345

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_356>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 127-144
postern dour,’ and along the topmost level of the
threshold of the well-built, hall was a way into a
passage, and well-fitting folding doors closed it. ‘This
postern Odysseus bade the goodly swineherd watch,
taking his stand close by, for there was but a single
way to reach it, Then’ Agelaus spoke among the
‘wooers, and declared his word to all
   «Friends, will not one mount up by the postern
oor, and tell the people, that so an alarm may be
raised straightway? ‘Then should this fellow ‘soon
have shot his last.”
   ‘Then Melanthius, the goatherd, answered him : It
may not be, Agelaus, fostered of Zeus, for terribly
near is the fair door of the court, and the mouth of
the passage is hard. One man could bar the way for
all, 80 he were valiant. But come, let me bring you
from the store-room arms to don, for itis within, me-
thinks, and nowhere else that Odysseus and his
glorious son have laid the arms.”
   Sosaying, Melanthius, thegoatherd, mounted up by
the steps * of the halltothe store-rooms of Odysseus.
Thence he took twelve shields, as many spears, and
‘hich was level with the threshold in front, was elevatedto
the ground level inthe rear. Hence the fact that, the
δεσοδέρη, opening upon a “way outside, was itaelf above
         of the hall, and hadtobe reached by stops, ‘That
         és, of fonndation wall, was not itself level, but
followed the slope of the grotnd, seems to me to offer no
dificult.

                                        with ῥήσννμι, and
to call tho stops “breaks” in an ascent ia surely natoral
‘enough tee Monro.
       x                                              347

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_358>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΠΙ. 145-172
 asmany helmets of bronze with thick plumes of horse-
 hair, and went his way, and quickly brought and
‘gavethen tothe wooers. Thentheknees       ofOdysseus
 were loosened and his heart melted, when he saw
 them donning armour and brandishing long spears
 in their hands, and great did his task seem to
 him; but quickly he spoke to Telemachus winged
 words:
    “Telemachus, verily some one of the women in
 the halls is rousing against us an evil battle, or
 haply it is Melanthius.’
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Father, it
 is I myself that am at fault in this, and no other is
 to blame, for I left the close-fitting door of the
 store-room open: their watcher was better than I.
 Butgonow, goodly Bumaeus, close the door of the
 store-room, and see whether it is one of the women
 who does this, or Melanthius, son of Dolius, as I
 suspect.”
      "hus they spoke to one another. But Melanthius,
 the goatherd, went again to the store-room to bring
 eautiful armour; howbeit the goodly swincherd
 marked him, and straightway said to Odysseus who
 was near:
    Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, yonder again is the pestilent fellow,
 whom we ourselves suspect, going to the store-room.
 But do thou tell me troly, shall 1 slay him, if T
 prove the better man, or shall 1 bring him hither to
‘thee, that the fellow may pay for the many crimes
 that he has planned in thy house ?””
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
 said: “Verily 1 and Telemachus will keep the lordly
 ‘wooers within the hall, how fierce soever they be,
                                                   349

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_360>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 173-199
 but do you two bend behind him his feet and his
 arms above, and cast him into the store-room, and
 tie boards behind his back; then make fast to. his
 body a twisted rope, and hoist him up the tall pillar,
 till you bring him near the roof-beams, that he may
 keep alive long, and suffer grievous torment.”
     So he spoke, and they readily hearkened and
 obeyed. Forth they went to the store-room, unseen
 of him who was         within, He truly was secking for
 armour in the innermost part of the store-toom, and
 the two lay in wait, standing on either side of the
 door-posts. And when Melanthius, the goatherd,
 was about to pass over the threshold, bearing in one
 hand a goodly helm, and in the other a broad old
 shield, flecked with rust—the shield of lord Laertes,
 which he was wont tobear in his youth, but now it
‘waslaidby, and the seams      ofitsstraps were loosened—
 then the two sprang upon him and seized him. They
 ragged him in by the hair, and flung him down on
 the ground in sore terror, and bound his feet and
 hands with galling bonds,binding them firmly behind
 his back, as the son of Laertes bade them, the much-
 enduring, goodly Odysseus; and they made fast: to
 his body a twisted rope, and hoisted him up the tall
 pillar, till they brought him near the roof-beams.
 ‘Then didst thou mock him, swincherd Eumacus, and
    “Now verily, Melanthius, shalt thou watch the
 whole night through, lying on a soft bed, as befits
 thee, nor shalt thou ‘fail to mark the early Dawn,
 golden-throned, as she comes forth from the streams
 of Oceanus, at the hour when thou art wont to drive
 thy she-goats for the wooers,to prepare a feastin the
 halls.”
                                                       351

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_362>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 200-227
    So hewas left there, stretched in the direful bond,
but the two put on their armour, and closed the
bright door, and went to Odysseus, the wise and
erafty-minded, There they stood, breathing fury,
those on the threshold but four, while those within
the hall were many and brave. Then Athene, daugh-
ter of Zeus, drew near them, like unto Mentor in
formand voice, and Odysseus sw her, and wasglad
and hespoke, saying :
   ‘Mentor, ward of τοῖο, and remember me,
thy dear comrade, who often befriended thee. Thou
art of like age with myself.”
   So he spoke, deeming that it was Athene, the
rouser of hosts. But the wooers on the other side
shouted aloud in the hall, and first Agelaus, son of
Damastor, rebuked Athene, saying :
   “Mentor, let not Odysseus beguile thee with his
words to fight against the wooers and bear aid to
himself. For in this wise, methinks, shall our will
be brought to pass: when we have kilied these men,
father and son, thereafter shalt thou too be slain with
them, such deeds art thou minded to do in these
halls: with thine own head shalt thou pay the price,
But when with the sword we have stripped you of
‘your might, all the possessions that thou hast within
doors and in the fields we will mingle with those of
Odysseus, and will not suffer thy sons or th
daughters to dwell in thy halls, nor thy faithful wife
to fare at large in the city of Ithaca.”
   So he spoke, and Athene waxed the more wroth at
heart, and she rebuked Odysseus with angry words:
   “Odysseus, no longer hast thou steadfast might
nor any valout, such as was thine when for high-born
Helen of the white arms thou didst for nine years
                                                    353

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_364>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 228-255
battle with the Trojans unceasingly, and many men
 thon slewest in dread conflict, and by thy counsel
was the broad-wayed city of Priam taken. How is it
that now, when thou hast come to thy house and
thine own possessions, thou shrinkest with wailing
from playing the man, and that against the wooers?
Nay, friend, come hither and take thy stand by my
side, and see my deeds, that thou mayest know what
manner of man Mentor, son of Aleimus, is to repay
     dness in the midst of the foe.””
    She spoke, but did not give him strength utterly
to tum the course of the battle, Iut still made trial
of the might and valour of Odysseus and his glorious
son; and for herself, she flew up to the roof-Leam of
the smoky hall, and sat there in the guise of a swallow
to look upon,
    Now the wooers were urged on by Agelaus, son of
Damastor, by Eurynomus, and Amphimedon and De-
moptolemus and Peisander, son of Polyctor, and wise
Polyhus, for these were in valiance far the best of all
the wooers who still lived and fought for their lives
but the rest the bow and the swiftly-falling arrows
had by now laid low. But Agelaus spoke among
‘them, and declared his word to all:
    “Friends, now at length will this man stay his in-
vineible hands. Lo, Mentor has gone from him, and
has but uttered empty boasts, and they are left alone
there at the outer doors. Therefore hurl not now
upon them your long spears all at once, but come,
do you six throw first in the hope that Zeus may
grant that Odysseus be struck, and that we win
glory. Of the rest there is no care, onee he shall
have fallen.”
   So he spoke, and they all hurled their spears, as
                                                    355

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_366>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 256-284
 he bade, eagerly; but Athene made all vain, One
 man smote the door-post of the well-built hall, an-
 other the close-itting door, another's ashen spear,
 heavy with bronze, struck upon the wall. But when
they’ had avoided the spears of the wooers, first
 among them spoke the much-enduring goodly Odys-
      “Friends, now I give the word that we too cast
‘our spears into the throng of the wooers, who are
minded to slay us in addition to their former
 wrongs.”
      So he spoke, and they all hurled their sharp spears
with sure aim. Odysseus smote Demoptolemus, Tele-
machus Euryades, the swineberd Blatus, and the
herdsmen of the cattle slew Peisander. 80 these all
at the same moment bit the vast floor with theh
 teeth, and the wooers drew back to the innermost
part of the hall. But the others sprang forward and
Grew forth their spears from the dead bodies.
      Then again the wooers hurled their sharp spears
eagerly, but Athene made them vain, many as they
were. One man smote the door-post. of the well-
built’ hall, another the close-fitting door, another's
ashen spear, heavywith bronze, struck upon the wall.
But Amphimedon smote Telemachus on the hand by
‘the wrist, a grazing blow, and the bronze tore the
surface of the skin. And Ctesippus with his long
spear grazed the shoulder of Eumacus above his
shield, but the spear flew over and fell upon the
ground. Then once more Odysseus, the wise and
crafty-minded, and his company hurled their sharp
spears into the throng of the wooers, and again
Oaysseus, the sacker of cities, smote Eurydamas, and
Telemachus Amphimedon, the swincherd Polybus,
                                                      357

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_368>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 285-311
‘and thereafter the herdsman of the cattle smote
Ctesippus in the breast, and boasted over him,
saying:
   “Son of Polytherses, thou lover of revilings, never
more at all do thou speak big, yielding to folly, bat
leave the matter to the gods, since verily they are
mightier far. ‘This is thy gift of welcome to match
the hoof which of late thou gavesttogodlike Odys-
seus, when he went begging through the house.””
   So spoke the herdsman of the sleek cattle. But
Odysseus wounded the son of Damastor in close fight
with a thrust of his long spear, and Telemachus
wounded Leiocritus, son of Evenor, with a spear-
thrust full upon the groin, and drove the bronze clean.
through, and he fell headlong and struck the
ground full with his forehead. ‘Then Athene held
up her aegis, the bane of mortals, on high from the
roof, and the minds of the wooers were panic-stricken,
and they fled through the halls like aherd of kine
that the darting gad-fly falls upon and drives along,
in the season of spring, when the long days come.
‘And even as vultures of crooked talons and curved
beaks come forth from the mountains and dart upon
smaller birds, which scour the plain, fiying low be-
neath the clouds,and the vultures pounce upon them
and slay them, and they have no defence or way of
escape, and men rejoice at the chase ; even sodid those
others set upon the wooers and smite them left and
right through the hall. And therefrom rose hideous
groaning as heads were smitten, and all the floor
‘swam with blood.
   But Leiodes rushed forward and clasped the knees
of Odysseus, and made entreaty to him, and spoke
winged words :
                                                    359

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_370>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΊΙ. 312-337
   “By thy knees I beseech thee, Odysseus, and do
thou respect me and have pity. For I declare to
thee that never yet have I wronged one of the
‘women in thy halls by wanton word or deed; nay, I
soughttocheck the other wooers, when any would
do such deeds. But they would not hearken to me
to withhold their hands from evil, wherefore through
their wanton folly they have met a cruel doom.
Yet I, the soothsayer among them, that have done
no wrong, shallbe laid low even asthey;; so true isit
that there is no gratitude in aftertime for good deeds
done.”
   ‘Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows
Odysseus of many wiles answered him: “If verily
thou dost declare thyself  thesoothsayer among these
men, often, Iween, must thou have prayed in the
hulls that far from me the issue of a joyous return
might be removed, and that it might be with thee
‘that my dear wife should go and bear thee children ;
wherefore thou shalt not escape grievous death.”
   So saying, he seized in his strong hand a sword
that lay near, which Agelaus had let fall to the
ground when he was slain, and with this he smote
‘him full upon the neck. And even while he was yet
speaking his head was mingled with the dust.
   Now the son of Terpes, the minstrel, was still
secking to escape black fate, even Phemius, who
sang perforce among the wooers. He stood with the
clear-toned lyre in his hands near the postern door,
and he was divided in mind whether he should slip
out from the hall and sit down by the well-built,
altar of great Zeus, the God of the court, whereon
Laertes and Odysseus had bumed many ‘thighs of
‘oxen, or whether he should rush forward and clasp
                                                    361

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_372>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 338-366
 the knees of Odysseus in prayer. And as he pon-
 dered this seemed to him the better eourse, to clasp
 the knees of Odysseus, son of Laertes. So he laid
 the hollow lyre on the ground between the mixing-
 bowl and the silver-studded chair,and himself rushed
 forward and clasped Odysseus by the knees, and
 made entreaty to him, and spoke winged words:
    * By thy knees I beseech thee, Odysseus, and do
 thou respect me and have pity; on thine own self
 shall sorrow come hereafter, if thou slayest_ the
 minstrel, even me, who sing to gods and men, Self
 taught am I, and the god has planted in my heart
 all manner of lays, and worthy am I to sing to thee
 as toagod; wherefore be not eager to cut my throat.
 ‘Aye, and Telemachus too will bear witness to this,
 ‘thy dear son, how that through no will or desire of
 mine I was wont to resort to thy house to sing
 to the wooers at their feasts, but they, being far
 more and stronger, led me hither perforce.”
    So he spoke, and the strong and mighty Telema-
 cchus heard him, and quickly spoke to his father, who
‘wasnear:
    “Stay thy hand, and do not wound this guiltless
 ‘man with the sword. Aye, and let us save also the
 herald, Medon, who ever cared for me in our house,
 when I was ἃ child—unless perchanee Philoetius
 has already slain him, or the swineherd, or he met
 thee as thou didst rage through the house.
    So he spoke, and Medon, wise of heart, heard him,
 for he lay crouching beneath a chair, and had clothed
 himself in the skin of an ox, newly flayed, seeking to
 avoid black fate. Straightwayherose from beneath
 the chair and stripped offthe ox-hide, and then rashed
 forward and clasped Telemachus by the knees, and
 made entreaty to him, and spoke winged words:
                                                    363

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_374>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 367-397
     «Friend, here I am; stay thou thy hand and bid thy
 father stay his, lest in the greatness of his might he
 harm me with the sharp bronze in his wrath against
 the wooers, who wasted his possessions in the halls,
 and in their folly honoured thee not at all.”
     Bat Odysseus of many wiles smiled, and said to
 him: “Be of good cheer, for he has delivered thee
and saved thee, that thou mayest know in thy heart
and tell also to another, how far better is the doing
       ood deeds than of evil. But go forth from the
halls and sit down outside in the court away from
the slaughter, thou and the minstrel of many songs,
ΜΝ Τshall hae finshed all that I must needs do in
 the house.”
    So he spoke, and the two went their way forth
from the hall and sat down by the altar of great
Zeus, gazing about on every side, ever expecting
death. And Odysseus too gazed about all through
his house to see if any man yet lived, and was hidin,
there, seeking to avoid black fate, But he found
them one and al fallen in the blood and dust—all the
host of them, like fishes that fishermen have drawn
forth in the meshes of their net from the grey sea
upon the curving beach, and they all lie heaped upon
the sand, longing for the waves of the sea,andthe
bright sun takes away their life; even so now the
‘wooers lay heaped upon each other. Then Odysseus
of many wiles spoke to Telemachus :
    “Telemachus, go call me the nurse Eurycleia, that
I may tell her the word that isin my mind.”
    So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and shaking the door said to Burycle
    “ Up and hither, aged wife, that hast charge of αἱ
our woman servants in the halls. Come, my father
calls thee, that he may tell thee somewhat.”
                                                    365

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_376>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 398-426
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinge
she opened the doors of the stately hall, andcame
forth, andTelemachus led the way before her. There
she found Odysseus amia the bodies of the slain,
all befouled with blood and filth, likealion that comes,
from feeding on an ox of the farmstead, and all his
breast and his cheeks on either side are stained
with blood, and he is terrible to look upon even 8ὸ
was Odysseus befouled, his fect and his hands above,
But she, when she beheld the corpses and the great
welter of blood, made ready to utter loud cries
of joy, seeing what a decd had been wrought.
But Odysseus stayed and checked her in her eager.
ness, and spoke and addressed her with winged
words:
   “«Inthine own heart rejoice, old dame, but refrain
thyself and ery not out aloud: an unholy thing
is it to boast over slain men, These men here
has the fate of the gods destroyed and their own
reckless deeds, for they honoured no one of men
upon the earth, were he evil or good, whosoever
came among them; wherefore by their wanton
folly they brought on themselves a shameful death,
But come, name thou over to me the women in
the halls, which ones dishonour me and which are
guiltless.”
   ‘Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered hit
«Then verily, my child, will Ttell thee all the truth.
Fifty women servants hast thou in the halls, women
‘that we have taught to do their work, to card the
‘wool and bear the lot of slaves. Of these twelve in
all have set their feet in the way of shamelessness,
‘and regard not me nor Penelope herself. And
Telemachus is but newly grown to manhood, and his
                                                    367

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_378>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 427-453
 mother would not suffer him to rule over the women
servants. But come, let me go up to the bright upper
chamber and bear word to thy wife, on whom some
god has sent sleep.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of meny wiles answered her, and
said: “Wake her not yet, but do thou bid come
hither the women, who in time past have contrived
shameful deeds.”
    So he spoke, and the old dame went forth through
the hall to beat tidings to the women, and bid them
come; but Odysseus called to him Telemachus and
the neatherd and the swincherd, and spoke to them
winged words:
    “Begin now to bear forth the dead bodies and bid
the women help you, and thereafter cleanse the
Deautiful-chairs and the tables with waterandporous
sponges. But when you have set all the house ia
order, lead the women forth from the well-built hall
toa place between the dome? and the goodly fence
ofthe court, and there strike them dowa with your
Jong swords; until you take away the life from them
all, and they forget the love which they hadat the
bidding of the wooers, when they lay with themin
secret.”
    So he spoke, and the women cameall in a throng,
wailing teribly and shedding big tears. First they
bore forth the bodies of the slain and set them down
beneath the portico of the well-fenced court, prop-
ping them one against the other; and Odysseus him-
self gavethemorders and hastened on the work, and
they bore the bodies forth perforce. ‘Then they
cleansed the beautiful bigh seats and the tables with
   Lis impousfble
swas,ave   thar it  to have
                  mnt  determine
                            boen   precieelydomeliko
                                  tome          what the   ϑίλον
                                                     strastare
within the aig,
                                                         369

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_380>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 454-480
waterand porous sponges. But Telemachus and the
neatherd and the swineherd scraped with hoes the
floor of the well-built house, and the women bore
the scrapings forth and threw them out of doors.
But when they had set in order all the hall, they
led the women forth from the well-built hall to a
place between the dome and the goodly fence of the
court, and shut them up in ἃ narrow space, whence
it was in no wise possible to escape. Then wise
Telemachus was the first to speak to the others,
saying
   "let it be by no clean death that I take the lives
of these women, who on my own head have poured
reproachees and on my mother, and were wont to lie
with the wooers.”
    So he spoke, and tied the cable  ofadark-prowed
ship to a great pillar and flung it round the dome,
stretching it on high that none might reach the
ground with her feet. And as when long-winged
thrushes or doves fall into a snare that is set in a
thicket,asthey seekto reach their resting-place,    and
hateful is the bed that gives them weleome, even so
the women held their heads in a row, and round the
necks of all nooses were laid, that they might die
most piteously. And they writhed ἃ little while with
their feet, but not long.
    ‘Then forth they led Melanthius through the’ door-
way and the court, and cut off his nostrils and his
cears with the pitiless bronze, and drew out his vitals
for the dogs to eat raw, and cut off his hands and his
feet in their furious wrath,
    Thereafter they washed their hands and feet,
and went into the house to Odysseus, and the work
was done, But Odysseus ssid to the dear nurse
                                                   311

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_382>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII, 481-sor
     -ycleia:   “Bring sulphur, old dame,tocleanse from
pollution, and bring me fire, that I'may purge the
hall; and do thou bid Penelope come hither with
her handmaidens, and order all the women in the
house to come.”
   Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered him:
“Yea, all this, my child, hast thou spoken aright.
Bat come, let me bring thee a cloak and a tunic for
raiment, and do not thou stand thus in the halls with
‘thy broad shoulders wrapped in rags; that were ἃ
cause for blame.”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her:
       rt ofall let a fie now be made me in the hall.”
   So he spoke, and the dear nurse Eurycleia did not
disobey, but brought fire and sulphur; but Odysseus
throughly purged the hall and the house and the
court.
   Then the old dame went back through the fair
house of Odysseus to bear tidings to the women and
bid them come; and they came forth from their hall
with torches in their hands. They thronged about
Odysseus and embraced him, and clasped and kissed
his head and shoulders and his hands in loving wel-
‘come; and a sweet longing seized him to weep and
‘wail, for in his heart he knew them all.




                                                   313

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_384>>>
BOOK       XXII

   ‘Tuzw the old dame went up to the upper chamber,
Jaughing aloud, to tell her mistress that her dear
husband wasinthe house. Her knees moved nimbly,
buther fect trotted along beneath her αὶ and she stood
above her lady’s head, and spoketoher, and said:
   “Awake, Penelope, dear child, that with thine
own eyes thou mayest see what thou desirest allthy
days, Odysseus is here, and has come home, late
though his coming has been, and has slain the proud
‘wooers who vexed his house, and devoured his sub-
stance, and oppressed his son.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
the gods have made thee mad, they who can make
foolish even one who is full wise, and set the simple-
minded in the patls of understanding; it is they
that have marred thy wits, though heretofore thou
‘wast sound of mind. Why dost thou mock me, who
have a heart full of sorrow, to tell me this wild tale,
and dost rouse me out of slumber, the sweet slumber
that bound me and enfolded my eyelids? For never
yet have I slept so sound since the day when Odys-
seus went forth to sce evil Ilios that should not be
named. Nay come now, go down and back to the
women’s hall, for if any other of the women that are
  2 ‘The meaning of ὑπερικταίνομαι hatoboinferred from the
ast
ἔπι    impits
      πο  tat thQf the
                   Bret ld  westan
                        eloment  ἴα and  the Toctleens
                                    the word  is xd, nob of
                                                          spe
                                                         Pape
                                                          315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_386>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII, 22-47
mine had come and told me this, and had roused me
out of sleep, straightway would I have sent her back
insorry wise to return again to the hall, but tothee
cold age shall bring this profit.”
    Then the dear nurse Furyeleia answered her: I
mock thee not, dear child, but in very trath Odys-
seus is here, and has come home, even'as I tell thee.
He is that stranger to whom all men did dishonour
in the halls, But Telemachus long ago knew that
he was here, yet in his prudence he hid the purpose
of his father, till he should take vengeance on the
violence of overweening men.”
    So she spoke, and Penelope was glad, and she
leapt from her bed and flang her arms about the old
‘woman and let the tears fall from her eyelids; and
she spoke, and addressed her with winged word:
    “Come now, dear nurse, I pray thee tell me truly,
if verily he has come home, as thou sayest, how he
put forth his hands upon the shameless wooers, all
alone as he was, while they remained always in a
body in the house.’
    Then the dear nurse Burycleia answered her: I
saw not, I asked not; only I heard the groaning of
men that were being slain. As for us women, we
sat terror-stricken in the innermost part ofour well-
built chambers, and the close-fitting doors shut us in,
until the hour when thy son Telemachus called me
from the hall, for his father had sent him forth to
call me, Then I found Odysseus standing amon,
the bodies of the slain, and they, stretched all aroun
       on the hard floor, lay one ‘pon the other the
 ght would have warmed thy heart with cheer.
   2 The apurioa ine 48, αἵματι καὶ Aitoy πεπαλαγμένον ὅν re
Morea (eras ἀἰ has een omitted in translating
                                                        31)

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_388>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 49-76
And now the bodies are all gathered together at the
gates of the court, but he is purging the fair house
frit sulphur, and has kindled a great fire, and sent
me forth to call thee. Nay, come with me, that the
hearts of you two may enter into joy, for you have suf-
fered many woes. But now at length has this thy long
desire been fulfilled: he has come himself, alive to
his own hearth, and he has found both thee and his
son in the halls ; while as for those, even the wooers,
who wrought him evil, on them has he taken
vengeance one and all in his house.”
       en wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
boast not yet loudly over them with laughter. ‘Thou
knowest liow welcome the sight of him in the halls
would be to all, but above all to me and to his son,
born of us two. But this is no true tale, as thou
tellest it; may, some one of the immortals has slain
the lordly wooers in wrath at their grievous insolence
and their evil deeds. For they honoured no one
‘among men upon the earth, were he evil or good,
whosoever came among them} therefore it is through
their own wanton folly that they have suffered evil.
But Odysseus far away has lost his return to the
land of Achaea, and is lost himself.”
    Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered her:
“My child, what a word has escaped the barrier of
thy terth, in that thou saidst that thy husband, who
even now is here, at his own hearth, would never
more return! Thy heart is ever unbelieving. Nay
come, [ will tell thee ἃ manifest sign besides, even
the sear of the wound which long ago the boar
dealt him with his white tusk. This I marked while
 I washed his feet, and was fain to tell it to thee as
‘well, but he laid his hand upon my mouth, and in
     x                                               379

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_390>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 77-103
the great wisdom of his heart would not suffer me
to speak. So come with me; but I will set my very
life at stake that, if I deceive thee, thou shouldest
slay me by a most pitiful death.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
it is hard for thee to comprehend the counsels of the
gods that are forever, how wise soever thou art.
Nevertheless let us go to my son, that 1 may see
the wooers dead and him that slew them.”
   So saying, she went down from the upper chamaber,
and much her heart pondered whether she should
stand aloofand question her deav husband, or whether
she should go up to him, and clasp and kiss his head
and hands. But when she had come in and had
passed over the stone threshold, she sat down
‘opposite Odysseus in the lightofthe fire beside the
farther wall; but he was sitting by a tall pillar,
looking down, and waitingtosee whether his noble
wife would say aught to him, when her eyes beheld
him. Howbeit she sat long in silence, and amaze-
ment came upon her soul; and now with her eyes
she would look full upon his face, and now again
she would fail to know him, for thet he had upon
him mean raiment. But Telemachus rebuked her,
and spoke, and addressed her :
   “My mother, cruel mother, that hast an unyielding
heart, why dost thou thus hold aloof from my father,
and dost not sit by his side and ask and question
him? No other woman would harden her heart as
thou dost, and stand aloof from her husband, who
after many grievous toils had come back to her in
the twentieth year to his native land: but thy heart
is ever harder than stone.”
                                                  381

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_392>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 104-133
    Then wise Penelope answered him: “My child,
the heart in my breast is lost in wonder, and I have
no power to speak at all, nor to ask a question, nor to
ook him in the face. ’But if in very truth he is
Odysseus, and has come home, we two shall surely
know one another more certainly; for we have signs
which we two alone know, signs hidden from others.”
    So she spoke, and the much-enduring, goodly
Odysseus smiled, and straightway spoke to Telema-
hus winged words:
    “Telemachus, suffer now thy mother to test me in
the halls; presently shall she win more certain know-
ledge. But now because 1 am foul, and am clad
about my body in-'mean clothing, she seors me, and
will not yet admit that Iam he.” But for us, letus
take thought how all may be the very best. For
whoso has slain but one man in a land, even
though it be a man that leaves not many belind to
avenge him, he goesintoexile, and leaves his kindred
and his native Iand; but we have slain those who
were the very stay of the city, far the noblest of the
youths of Ithaca. Of this [bid thee take thought.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Do thou
thyself look tothis, dear father ; for thy counsel, they
say, isthe best among men, nor could any other of
mortal men vie with thee. As for us, we will follow
with thee eagerly, nor methinks shall we be wanting
in valour, 50 far as we have strength.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
said: Then will I tell thee what seems to me to be
            raiment, But let the divine minstrel
with bis clear-toned lyre in hind be our leader in
                                                  383

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_394>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 134-162
 the gladsome dance, that sny man who hears the
sound from without, whether a passer-by or one of
 those who dwell around, may say that it is a
 wedding feast; and so the rumour     oftheslaying of
 the wooers shall not be spread abrosd throughout
the city before we go forth to our well-wooded farm.
There shall we afterwards devise whatever advantage
the Olympian may vouchsafe us.
      So he spoke, and they all readily hearkened and
obeyed. First they bathed and put on their tunies,
and the women arrayed themselves, and the divine
minstrel took the hollow lyre and aroused in them
the desire of sweet song and goodly dance. So the
reat hall resounded all about with the tread of
dancing men and of fair-girdled women; and thus
would one speak who heard the noise from without
the house:
     “Aye, verily some one has wedded the queen
‘wooed of many. Cruel     shewas,norhad she the heart
to keep the great house of her wedded husband to
the end, even till he should come.”
      So they would say, but they knew not how these
things were. Meanwhile the housewife Eurynome
bathed the great-hearted Odysseus in his honse, and
anointed him with oil, and cast about him a fair cloak
      ἃ ἃ tunic; and over his head Athene shed abun-
   fant beauty, making him taller to look upon and
‘mightier, and from his head she made locks to flow
in curls like the hyacinth flower. And as when a
‘man overlays silver with gold, a cunning workman
whom Hephaestus and Pallas Athene have taught all
Tenner of crafty and full of grace is the work he
produces, even 0 the goddess shed grace on his
head and shoulders, and forth from the bath he
                                                   385

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_396>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 163-191
came, in form like unto the immortals. ‘Then he sat
down again on the chair from which’ he had risen,
opposite his wife; and he spoke to her and said:
   Strange Indy! to thee beyond all women have
the dwellers on Olympus given a heart that cannot be
softened. No other woman would harden her heart
as thou dost, and stand aloof from her husband who
after many grievous toils had come to her in the
twentieth year to his native land. Nay come, nurse,
strew me a couch, that all alone I may lay me down,
for verily the heart in her breast is of iron,
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Strange sir,
Tam neither in any wise proud, nor do I scorn thee,
nor yet am I too greatly amazed, but right well do ἱ
Know whét manner of man thou wast, when thou
wentest forth from Ithaca on thy long-oared ship.
Yet come, Burycleia, strew for him the stout bed-
stead outside the well-built bridal chamber which he
made himself, Thither do ye bring for him the stout
bedstead, and cast upon it bedding, fleeces and
cloaks and bright coverlets.”
   So she spoke, andmade trial ofherhusband. But
Odysseus, in a burst of anger, spoke to his true-
hearted wife, and seid: “Woman, truly this isa
bitter word that thou hast spoken. "Who has set my
bed elsewhere? Hard would it be for one, though
 never s0 skilled, unless a god himself should come
and easily by his will set it in another place. Butof
men there is no mortal that live, be he never so
  oung andstrong, whocould easily pryit from its
 lacey for a greattokenis wrought in the fashioned
 Bed, and it wae 1 that built it and none other. A
 bush of long-leafed olive was growing within
 the court, strong and vigorous, and in girth it was
                                                  357

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_398>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII, 192-218
 like a pillar, Round about this I built my chamber,
 till I had finished it, with close-set stones, and I
 roofed it over well, and added to it jointed doors,
 close-ftting. Thereafter I cut away the leafy
 branches of the Iong-leafed clive, and, trimming the
 trunk from the root, I smoothed it around with the
 adze well and cunningly, and made it straight to the
 line, thus fashioning the bed-post; and I bored it all
 with the augur. Beginning with this I hewed out
 my bed, till I had finished it, inlaying it with gold
 and silver and ivory, and I stretched on it a thong
 of orhide,bright with pomple.”‘Thusdodeclare to
 thee this token; but {know not, woman, whether
 my bedstead is still fast in its place, or whether by
 now some man has cut from beneath the olive
stump, and set the bedstead elsewhere.”
    So he spoke, and her knees were loosened where
she sat, and her heart melted, asshe knew the sure
tokens which Odysseus told her. Then with a burst
of tears she ran straight toward him, and flung her
arms about the neck of Odysseus, and kissed his
head, and spoke, saying:
    “Be not vexed with me, Odysseus, for in all else
thou wast ever the wisest of men. Tt is the gods
that gave us sorrow, the gods who begrudged that
we two should remain with each other and enjoy our
youth, and come to the threshold of old age. |But
bbe not now wroth with me for this, nor full of in
nation, because at the first, when I saw thee, I di
not thus give thee welcome. For always the heart
in my breast was full of dread, lest some man should
come and beguile me with his words; for there are
many that plan devices of evil. Nay, even Argive
Helen, daughter of Zeus, would not have lain in love
                                                   389

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_400>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 219-246
with aman of another folk, had she known that the
warlike sons of the Achaeans were to bring her home
again to her dear native land. Yet verily in her ease
god prompted her to work a shamefil deed ;nor
until then did she lay up in her mind the thought of
that folly, the grievous folly from which at the first
sorrow came upon us too. But now,since thou hast
told the clear tokens of our bed, which no mortal
beside has ever seen save thee and me alone and one
single handmaid, the daughter of Actor, whom my
father gave me or ever I came hither, even her who
kept the doors of our strong bridal chamber, lo, thou
dost convince my heart, unbending as it is"
   So she spoke, and in his heart aroused yet more
the desire for lamentation ;and he wept, holding in
     arms his dear and true-hearted wife. And wel-
come as is the sight of land to men that swim, whose
well-built ship Poseidon has smitten on the seaasit,
was driven on by the wind and the swollen-wave,
and but few have made their escape from the gray
sea to the shore by swimming, and thickly are their
bodies erusted with brine, and gladly have they set
foot on the land and escaped from their evil case ;
even so welcome to her was her husband, as she
gazed upon him, and from his neck she could in no
wise let her white arms go. And now would the
rosy-fingered Dawn have arisen upon their weeping,
had not the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, taken
other counsel. The long night she held back at
the end of its course, and likewise stayed the golden-
throned Dawn at the streams of Oceanus, and would
not suffer her to yoke her swift-footed horses that
bring light to men, Lampus and Phaethon, who are
the colts that bear the Dawn.
                                                391

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_402>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 247-278
    Then to his wife said Odysseus of many wiles:
“Wife, we have not yet come to the end of all our
trials, but still hereafter there istobemeasureless toil,
ong and hard, which I must fulfil to the end ;for so
did the spirit ‘of Tefresias foretell to me on the day
when I went down into the house of Hadestoen-
quire concerning the return of my comrades and
myself. But come, wife, let us to bed, that lulled
now by sweet slumber we may take our joy of
rae
    Then wise Penelope answered him: “Thy bed
shall be ready for thee whensoever thy heart shall
desire it, since the gods have indeed caused thee to
come back to thy well-built house and thy native
land. But since thou hast bethought thee of εἰ
and a god has put it into thy heart, come; tell me of
this trial, for in time to come, methinks, I shall learn
ofit, and tolmow it at once is no whit worse.”
    And Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said :“Strange lady!why dost thou now so urgently
 bid me tell thee? Yet I will declare it, and will
 hide nothing. Verily thy heart shall have no joy of
 it, even as I myself have none; for Teiresias bade
 me go forth to fall many cities of men, bearing a
 shapely oar in my hands, till I should come to men
 that know naught of the sea, and eat not of food
 mingled with salt; aye,    andthey know naught  ofships
 with purple cheeks, ot of shapely oars that serve as
‘wingstoships. And he told methis sign, right mani-
 Fest} nor will I hide it from thee. When another
 ‘wayfarer, on meeting me, should say that I had a
 winnowing fan on my stout shoulder, then he bade
 me fix my oar in the earth, and make goodly offerings
 to lord Poseidon—a ram and a bull and a bosr, that
                                                     393

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_404>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 279-304
mates with sows—and depart for my home, and offer
sacred hecatombs to the immortal gods, who hold
broad heaven, to each one in due order. And death
shall come to’ me myselffarfrom the sea, a death so
gentle, that shall lay me low, when Iam overcome
with sleek old age, and my ‘people shall dwell in
prosperity around me. All this, he said, should I
see fulfilled.
   Then wise Penelope answered him: “If verily
the gods are to bring about for thee a happier old
age, there is hope then that thou wilt find an escape
from evil.”
   ‘Thus they spoke to one another; and meanwhile
Burynome and the nurse made ready the bed of
soft coverlets by the light of blazing torches. But
when they had busily spread the stout-built bed-
stead, the old nurse went back to her chamber to
ie down, and Eurynome, the maiden of the bed-
chamber, led them on their way to the couch with a
torch in her hands; and when she had led them to
the bridal chamber, she went back. And they then
gladly came to the place? of the couch that was
theirs of old. But Telemachus and the neatherd
and the swineherd stayed their feet from dancing,
and stayed the women, and themselves lay down
to sleep throughout the shadowy halls.
   But when the two had had their fill of the
joy of love, they took delight in tales, speaking
each to the other. She, the fait lady, told of all
that she hadendured in the halls, looking upon the
destructive throng of the wooers, who for her sake
slew many beasts, cattle and goodly sheep; and
    2Others ronder “rites,” but this seems un-Homeric,
                                                       395

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_406>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 305-333
 great, store of wine was drawn from the jars.
 But Zeus-born Odysseus recounted all the woes that
 he had brought on men, and all the toilthat in
 hhis sorrow he had himself endured, and she was
 glad to listen, nor did sweet sleep fall upon her
 eyelids, till he had told all the tale.
     He began by telling how at the first he over-
 came the Cicones, and then came tothe rich land
 fof the Lotus-eaters, and all that the Cyclops
 wronght, and how he made him pay the price for
 his mighty comrades, whom the Cyclops had eaten,
 and had shown no pity. Then how he came to
 Aeolus, who received him with a ready heart, and sent
 him on his way ; but it was not yet his fate to come
 to his dear native land, nay, the storm-wind caught
 hhim up again, and bore him over the teeming deep,
arosning heavily. Next ow he came to Telepylus
 of the strygonia ans, who destroyed his ships and
 hhis well-greaved comrades one and all, and Odysseus
 alone escaped in his black ship. Then he told ot
 all the wiles and craftiness of Circe, and how in his
 benched ship he had gone to the dank house of
 Hades to consult the spirit of Theban Teiresias, and
 had seen all his comrades and the mother who bore
 him and nursed him, when a child. And how he
 heard the voice of the Sirens, who sing unceasingly,
 and had come to the Wandering Rocks, and to dread
 Charybdis, and to Scylla, from whom never yet had
 men escaped unscathed. Then how his comrades
 slew the kine of Helios, and how Zeus, who thunders
 ‘on high, smote his swift ship with a flaming thunder-
 bolt, and his goodly comrades perished all together,
 while he alone escaped the evil fates. And how he
 ‘cametothe isle Ogygia and to the nymph Calypso,
                                                    397

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_408>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 334-361
who kept him there in her hollow caves, yearnin,
that he should be her’ husband, and tended him, an
said that she would make him immortal and ageless
all his days; yet she could never persuade the heart
in his breast.” Then how he came after many toils to
the Phaeacians, who heartily showed him all honour,
as if he were @ god, and sent him ina ship to his
dear native land, after giving him stores of bronze
and gold and raiment. ‘This was,the end ofthe tale
he told, when sweet sleep, that loosens the limbs of
men, leapt upon him, loosening the cares of his
heart.
   ‘Then again the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. When che jadged that the heart of
 Odysseus had had its ΠῚ] of dalliance with his wife
 and of sleep, straightway she roused from Oceanus
 golden-throned Dawn to bring light tomen; and
 Odysseus rose from his soft couch, and gave charge
 to bis wife, saying:
     “Wife, by now have we had our fill of many trials,
 thou and I, thou here, mourning over my troublous
 joumey home, while as for me, Zeus and the other
 igods bound me fast in sorrows far from my native
 and, all eager as I vias to retum. But now that
  we have both come to the couch of our desire, do
  thou care for the wealth that I have within the
  halls; as for the flocks which the insolent wooers
  have wasted, I shall myself get me many as booty,
  apd others ‘vill the Achacans give, until they
  all my folds; but I verily will go to my well-
  wooded farm to see my noble father, who for my
  sake is sore distressed, and on thee, wife, do I lay
  this’ charge, wise though thou art Straightway at
                                                  399

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_410>>>
THE ΟΡΥΒΒΕΥ͂, XXIII. 362-372
the rising of the sun will report go abroad concern-
ing the wooers whom I slew in the halls. Therefore
   ‘thou up tothyupper chamber with thy handmaids,
Sndabide there, Look thon on no met, nor alk ἃ
question,
   He spoke, and girt about his shoulders his beauti-
ful armour, and roused Telemachus and the neat-
herd and the swineherd, and bade them all take
weapons of war in their hands. They did not dis-
obey, but clad themselves in bronze, and opened the
doors, and went forth, and Odysseus led the way.
By now there was light over the earth, but Athene
hid them in night, and swiftly led them forth from
the eity.

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_412>>>
BOOK      XXIV

    Msanwune Cyllenian Hermes called forth the
 spirits of the wooers. He held in his hands his
 wand, a fair wand of gold, wherewith he lulls to
sleep the eyes of whom he will, while others again
he wakens even out of slumber; with this he roused
and led the spirits, and they followed gibbering.
‘And as in the innermost recess of a wondrous cave
bats fit about gibbering, when one has fallen from olf
the rock from the chain in which they cling to
‘one another,50these went with him gibbering, and
Hermes, the Helper, led them down the dank ways.
Past the streams of Oceanus they went, past the
rock Leueas, past the gates of the sun and the land
of dreams, and quickly came to the mead of
asphodel, where the spirits dwell, phantoms of men
who have done with toils. Here they found the
spirit of Achilles, son of Peleus, and those of
  ratroclus, of peerless Antilochus, and of Aias, who in
ccomeliness and form was the goodliest of all the
Danaans after the peerless son of Peleus.
    So these were thronging about Achilles, and near
to them drew the spirit of Agamemnon, son. of
Atreus, sorrowing; and round about him others
‘were gathered, the spirits of all those who were slain
with him in the house of Aegisthus, and wnt their
fate. And the spirit of the son of Peleus was first
to address him, saying:
                                                     403

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_414>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 24-50
    “Son of Atreus, we deemed that thou above all
 other heroes wast all thy days dear toZeus, who hurls
 the thunderbolt, because thou wast: lord over many:
 mighty men in'the land of the Trojans, where we
 Achaeans suffered woes. But verily on thee too
 was deadly doom to come all too early, the doom
 that not one avoids of those who are born. Ah,
 ‘would that in the pride of that honour of which
 thou wast master thou hadsc met death and fate in
 the land of the Trojans. Then would the whole
 host of the Achaeans have made thee a tomb, and
 for thy son too wouldst thou have won great glory
 in days to come; but now, as it seems,ithas been
 decreed that thou shouldst be cut of by a most
iteous death.”
    Then the spirit of the son of Atreus answered
him: ‘Fortunate son of Peleus, godlike Achilles,
that wast slain in the land of Troy far from Argos,
and about thee others fell, the best of the sons of
the Trojans and Achaeans, fighting for thy body 5
and thou in the whirl of dust didst lie mighty
in thy mightiness, forgetful of thy horsemanship.
We on, our part strove the whole day long, nor
should we ever have stayed from the fight, had not
Zeus stayed us with a storm. But after we had
borne thee to the ships from out the fight, we laid
thee on a bier, and cleansed thy fair flesh with warm
water and with ointment, and many hot tears did
the Danaans shed around thee, and they shore their
hair. And thy mother came forth from the sea with
‘the immortal sea-nymphs, when she heard the
tidings, and a wondrous cry arose over the deep, and
thereat trembling Inid hold of all the Achacans.
‘Then would they all have sprang up and rushed to
                                                   495

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_416>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 51-77
the hollow ships, had not a man, wise in the wisdom
of old, stayed them, even Nestor, whose counsel had
before appeared the best. He with good intent
addressed their assembly, and sai
    «Hold, ye Argives; flee not, Achsean youths.
“Tishis mother who comes here forth from the ea
with the immortal sea-nymphs    to look uponthe face
of her dead son.”            ee          τὰ
    “So he spoke, and the great-hearted Achneans
ceased from their fight. ‘Tien around thee stood
  he daughters of the old man of the sea wailing
       sly, and theyclothed thee about with immortal
raiment.” And the Muses, nine in all, replying
to one another with sweet voices, led the dirge.
There couldst thou not have seen an Argive but
was in tears, so deeply did the clear-toned Muse
‘move their hearts, Thus for seventeen days alike
by night and day did we bewail thee, immortal gods
and mortal, men, and on the eighteenth we gave
thee to the fire, and many well-fatted sheep we slew
around thee and sleek kine. Sothou wast burned
in the raiment of the gods and in abundance of
unguents and sweet honey; and many Achaean
‘warriors moved in their armour aboutthe pyre, when
thou wast burning, both footmen and chariotecrs,
and a great din arose. But when the flame of
Hephaestus had made an end of thee, in the morning
we gathered thy white bones, Achilles, andlaidthem
in unmixed wine and unguents. Thy mother hed
given a two-handled, golden urn, and said that it
was the gift of Dionysus, and the handiwork of famed
Hephaestus. In this lie thy white bones, glorious
Achilles, and mingled with them the bones of the
dead Patroclus, son of Menoetius, but apart lie those
                                                  47

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_418>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 78-105
of Antilochus, whom thou didst honour above all
the rest of thy comrades after the dead Patroclus,
‘And over them we heaped up a great and goodly
tomb, we the mighty host of Argive spearmen, on a
projecting headland by the broad Hellespont, that
it might be seen from far over the sea both by men
that now are and that shall be born hereafter. But
thy mother asked of the gods beautifol prizes, and
set them in the midst of the lists for the chiefs of
the Achaeans. Ere now hast thou been present at
the funeral games of many men that were warriors,
when at the death of a king the young men gird
‘themselves and make ready the contests, but hadst
thou seen that sight thoa wouldst most have mar-
velled atheart, such beautiful prizes did the goddess,
silver-footed Thetis, set, there in thy honour; for
very dear wast thou to the gods, Thus not even in
death didst thou lose thy name, but ever shalt thou
have fair renown among all men, Achilles. But, as
for me, what pleasure have I now in this, that J
wound up the skein of war? For on my return
Zeus devised for me a woeful doom at the             of
‘Aegisthus and my accursed wife.”
    Thos they spoke to, one another, but the mes-
senger, Argephontes, drew near, leading down the
spirits ofthe wooers slain by Odysseus and the two,
seized with wonder, went straight toward them when
they beheld them. And the spirit of Agamemnon,
son of Atreus, recognized the dear son of Melaneus,
glorious Amphimedon, who had been his host,
dwelling in Ithaca, Then the spirit         oftheson of
‘Atreus spoke frst to fim and
   ΑΙ have given το ἀεῦλα the meaning proper to Keto
{win the108. pric
vii           ἡOtherwise
                    econ wemust forthe
                                 renderpee
                                       “make them ready
                                                    ον

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_420>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 106-134
    “Amphimedon, what has befallen you that ye
hhave come down beneath the dark earth, all ‘of
you picked men and of like age? One would make
no other choice, were one to pick the best men ina
city. Did Poseidon smite you on board your ships,
trite he had roused cruel winds and long waves?
Or did foemen work you harmon the land, while you
were cutting off their cattle and fair locks of sheep,
or while they fought in defence of their city and
their women? Tell me what I ask; for I declare
that I am a friend of thy house. Dost thou not
remember when I eame thither to your house with
  odlike Menelaus to urge Odysseus to go with us to
  lios onthe benched ships? A fall month it took us
‘to cross all the wide sea, for hardly could we win to
our will Odysseus, the sacker of cities.”
    ‘Then the spirit of Amphimedon answered him,
and said: “Most glorious son of Atreus, king of
men, Agamemnon, I remember all these things,0
thou fostered of Zeus, even as thou dost tell them;
and on my part I will frankly tell thee all the truth,
how for us an evil end of death was wrought. We
‘wooed the wife of Odysseus, that had long been gone,
and she neither refused the hateful marriage, nor
would she ever makeanend,devising for us death and
black fate. Nay, she contrived in her heart this guile-
ful thing also: she set up in her halls a great web,
and fell to weaving—fine of thread was the web and
very wide; and straightway she spoke among us :
    @eYoung men, my wooers, since goodly Odysseus
is dead, be patient, though eager for my marriage,
until I'finish this’ robe—I would not that my
spinning should come to naught—a shroud for the
lord Laertes against the time when the fell fate of
   °                                  ‘            au

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_422>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 135-162
 grievous death shall strike him down; lest any of
 the Achaean women in the land should be wroth at
me, if he were to lie without a shroud, who had won
  eat possessions.”
SiSoshespoke, and our proud hearts consented.
‘Then day by day she would weave at the great web,
 but by night would unravel it, when she had let
 place torches by her. ‘Thus for three years she by
 her craft kept the Achaeans from Knowing, and
beguiled them; but when the fourth year came, as
the seasons rolled on,asthe months waned and many.
days were brought in their course, even then one of
her women who knew all, told us, and we caught her
unravelling the splendid web. So she finished it
against her will perforce.
   “Now when she had shewn us the robe, after
weaving the great web and washing it, and it shone
like the sun or the moon, then it was that some
cruel god brought Odysseus from somewhere
to the border of the land, where the swineherd
dwelt. Thither too came the dear son of
Odysseus on his return from sandy Pylos in his
black ship, and these two, when theyhadplanned an
evil death for the wooers, came to the famous city,
Odysseus verily later, but Telemachus led the
way before him. Now the swincherd brought his
master, clad in mean raiment, in the likeness of
ἃ woeful and aged beggar, leaning on a staff, and
miserable was the raiment that he wore about his
body; and not one of us could know that it was he,
when’ he appeared so suddenly, no, not even those
that were older men, but we assailed him with evil
words and with missiles. Howbeit he with steadfast
                                               ans

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_424>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 163-190
heart endured foratime to be pelted and taunted
in his own halls; but when at lest the will of Zeus,
who bears the aegis, roused him, with the help of
Telemachus he took all the beautiful arms and laid
them avay in the store-room and made fast the
bolts. ‘Then in his great cunning he bade his wife
set before the wooers his bow and the grey fron
to be a contest for us illfated men and the be-
ginning of death, And no man of us was able to
stretch the string of the mighty bow; nay, we fell
far short of that strength. But when the great bow
came to the hands of Odysseus, then we all cried
fout aloud not to give him the bow, how much
soever he might speak; but Telemachus alone urged
him on, and bade him take it. ‘Then he took the
how in his hand, the much-endaring, goodly Odysseus,
tnd with ease did he string it aed send an arrow
through the iron. ‘Then he went and stood on the
threshold, and poured out the swift arrows, glaring
about him terribly, and smote king Antinous. And
‘thereafter upon the others he with sure aim let fy his
shafts, fraught with groanings, and the men fell thick
and fast. Thenwasit known that somegod wastheir
helper; for straightway rushing on through the halls
in their fury they slew men left and right, and
therefrom rose hideous groaning, as heads were
smitten, and all the floor swam with blood. ‘Thus
 we perished, Agamemnon, and even now our bodies
 still lie uncaredefor in the halls of Odysseus;for our
friends in each man’s home know naught as. yet—
 our friends who might wash the black blood’ from
 ‘our wounds and lay our bodies out with wailing;for
 thatisthe due of the dead.”
                                                  415

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_426>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. r91~-216
       Then the spirit of the son of Atreus answered
  him: “Happy son of Laertes, Odysseus of many
  devices, of a truth full of all excellence was
  thou didst win,sogood of understanding wasthepeer-   wife
  less Penelope, daughter of Iearius, in that she was
  loyally mindful of Odysseus, her wedded husband.
  Therefore the fame of her virtue shall never perish,
  bat the immortals shall make among men on
pleasant song in honour of constant Penelope.earthNota
 on this wise did the daughter of Tyndareus
 evil deeds and slay her wedded husband, and devise  hate-
fal shall the song regarding her be among men, and
evil repute doth she bring upon all womankind,
 even upon her that doeth uprightly.”
      ‘Thus the two spoke to one another, as they
stood in the house of Hades beneath the depths of
the earth.
      But Odysseus and his men, when they had gone
down from the city, quickly came to the fair and
well-ordered farm of Laertes, which he had won for
himself in days past, and much had he toiled
therefor. There was his house, and all about it
ran the sheds in which ate, and sat, and slept the
servants that were bondsmen, that did his pleasure;
ut within it was an old Sicilian woman, who tended
the old man with kindly eare there at the farm, far
from the ity. Then Odysseus spoke tothe servants
and to his son, saying:
      “Do you now go within the well-built house,
               chtway slay for dinner the best of the
            mat I will make trial of my father, and
sacle efrone may beta the labourofruling the
 land, but.we mayalso thinkof               es having be n
ΠΣ
ΓΝ                                 ξεν               ae fs
                                                      “ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_428>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 217-247
see whether he will recognize me and know me bj
sight,  or whether he will fal to know me, since ἢ
have been gone so long atime.”
   So saying, he gave to the slaves his battle-gear.
‘They thereafter went quickly to the house; but
Odysseus drew near to the fruitful vineyard in his
quest, Now he did not find Dolius as he went down
into the great orchard, nor any of his slaves or of
his sons, but as it chanced they had gone to gather
stones for the vineyard wall, and the old man was
their lender. But he found his father alone in the
well-ordered vineyard, digging about a plant; and he
was clothed in ἃ foul tunic, patched and wretched,
and about his shins he had bound stitched greaves
of oxchide to guard against scratches, and he wore
gloves upon his hands because of the thorns, and on
his head a goatskin cap; and he nursed his sorrow.
Now when the mach-enduring, goodly Odyssens caw
hhim, worn with old age and laden with great grief
at heart, he stood still beneath ἃ tall pear tree, and
shed tears, Then he debated in mind and heart
whether to kiss and embrace his father, and tell him
all, how he had returned and come to his native land,
or whether he should first question him, and prove
him in each thing. And,    ashepondered, thisseemed
to him thebettercourse,toprove him first with mock-
ing words, So  with this n mind the goodly Odysseus
went straight toward him, He verilywas holding his
head down, digging about a plant, and his glorious
son came up to him, and addressed him, saying :
   “Old man, no lack of skill hast thou to tend a
garden ;nay, thy care is good, and there isnaught
whatsoever, either plantorfig tree, or vine, nay, or
olive, or pear, or garden-plot in all the field that
                                                   “9

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_430>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 248-276
 lacks care. But another thing will I tell thee, and
 do thou not lay up wrath thereat in thy heart: thou
thyself enjoyest no good care, but thou bearestwoeful
 old age, and therewith art foul and unkempt, and
 lad in’ mean raiment. Surely it is not because of
 sloth on thy part that thy master cares not for thee,
 nor dost thou seem in any wise like a slave to look
 upon either in form or in stature; for thou art likes
 kking, even like one who, when he has bathed and
 eaten, should sleep soft; for this is the way of old
 men.” But come, tell me this, and declare it truly.
 Whose slave art ‘thou, and whose orchard dost thou
 tend? And tell me this also truly, that Imay know
 fall well, whether this is indeed Ithaca, to which we
 are now come, as aman yonder told me, who met me
 but now on my way hither. In no wise over sound
 of wit was he, for he deigned not to tell me of each
 thing, nor to listen to my word, when I questioned
 him about a friend of mine, whether haply he still
 lives,oris now dead and in the house of Hades. For
 I will tell thee, and do thou give heed and hearken.
 Tonce entertained in my dear native land aman that
 ‘came to our house, and never did any man beside of
 strangers that dwell afar come to my house a more
 welcome guest. He declared that by lineage he
 came from Ithaca, and said that hisownfather was
 Laertes, son of Arceisius. So I took him to the
 house and gave him entertainment with kindly wel-
 come of the rich store that was within, and Igave
 him gifts of friendship, suchas aremeet. Of well-
 wrought gold I gave him seven talents, and a mixing-
 bowl all of silver, embossed with flowers, and twelve
 cloaks of single fold, and as many coverlets, and as
                                                   431

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_432>>>
"THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 277-301
    many fair mantles, and as many tunics besides, and
    furthermore women, skilled in goodly handiwork,
    four comely women, whom he himself was minded
    to choose.”
        Then hisfather answered him, weeping: “Stranger,
'   verily thou art come to the country of which thou
    dost ask, but wanton  andreckless men now possess it.
'   ‘And all in vain didst thou bestow those gifts, the
    counties its thou gavest For if thou hadst found
    hhim yet alive in the land of Ithaca, then would he
    have sent thee on thy way with ample requital of gifts
    ‘and good entertainment} for that is the due of him
    who begins the kindness. But come, tell me this, and
    declare it truly. How many years have passed since
    thou didst entertain that guest, that hapless guest,
    my son—as sure as ever such a man there was—my
    ill-starred son, whom far from his friends and his
    native land haply the fishes have devoured in the
    deep, or on the shore he has become the spoil of
    beasts   andbirds? Nor did his mother deck him for
    burial and weep over him, nor his father, we who
    gave him birth, no, nor did his wife, wooed with
    many gifts, constant Penelope, bewail her own, hus-
    band upon the bier, aswasmeet, when she had closed
    hhis eyes in death; though that is the due of the
    dead. And tell me thisalso truly, that I may know
    full ‘well. Who art thou among men, and from
    whence? Where is thy city, and where thy parents ?
    Where is the swift ship moored that brought thee
    hither with thy godlike comrades? Or didst thou
    come as a passenger on another's ship, and did they
    depart when they had set thee on shore?”
      1 Pouibly, “richly-dowered.”
    ‘shountful?    endbeyr oor only Others    render shmply
                                    Sn this phrase.
                                                       43

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_434>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 302-323
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Then verily will I frankly tell thee all. I
come from Alybas,t where I have a glorious house,
and I am the son of Apheidas,sonof lord Polypemon,
and my own name is Eperitus. But a god drove me
wandering from Sicania to come hither against my
will and my ship lies yonder off the tilled land away
from the city. Butasfor Odysseus, it is now the fifth
year since he went thenee, and departed from my
country. Hapless man! Yet he had birds of good
omen, When he set out, birds upon the right. 801
was glad of them, as I'sent him on his way, and he
went gladly forth, and our hearts hoped ‘that we
should yet meet as host and guest and give one
another glorious gifts.”
   So he spoke, and a dark cloud of grief enwrapped
Laertes, and with both his hands he took the dark
dust and strewed it over his grey head with ceaseless
       ing. Then the heart of Odysseus     wasstirred,
and up through his nostrils? shot a keen pang,
as he beheld his dear father. And he spran
toward him, and clasped him in his arms, and Kiss
him, saying:
   “Lo, father, I here before thee, my very self, am
that man of whom thou dost ask; Tam come in the
twentieth year to my native land, But cease from
 perce ss     enna                   eee
 ouἜΣcommty σαὶ ἕως δος ten yt     aarasng
                                                δΚΕ
                                                 ύο ὃς
   seit    mr              τα         Ἢ
 ἕῳ inclined:ratherto take the phrase aa indicative of
meister                        gat
 passion ina more general sense:      lated nostrile of an
theimagery frequent ἴαtho Old Testament,    and ¢/-
critur
   i,18snd Herodas
               vi.δ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_436>>>
7
              THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 324-348
    grief and tearful lamenting, for I will tell thee all,
    though great is the need of haste. ‘The wooers have
    Islain in our halls, and have taken vengeance           on
    their grievous insolence and their evil deeds.”
       Then Laertes answered him again, and
    it is indeed as Odysseus, my son, that thou said:      « If
                                                     art eeme
    hither, tell me now some clear sign, that I me, be
    sure.”             d
       And Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
    said: “This scar first do thou mark with thine eyes,
    the sear of the wound which a boar dealt me with
    his white tusk on Parnassus, when I had gone thither.
    Tt was thou that didst send me forth, thou and my
    honoured mother, to Autolycus, my mother’s father,
    that I might get the gifts which, when he came
    hither, he promised and agreed to give me. And
    come, I will tell thee also the trees in the well-
    ordered garden which once thou yavest me, and I,
    who was but a child, was following thes through the
    garden, and asking ‘thee for this and that. It was
    through these very.trees that we passed, and thou
    didst name them, and tell me of each one. Pear
    trees thirteen thou gavest me, and ten apple-trees,
    and forty fig-trees. And rows of vines too didst thou
    promise to give me, even as I say, fifty  ofthem, which
    Tipened severally at different times—and upon them
    are clusters of all sorts—whensoever the seasons of
    Zeus weighed them down from above.”?
       So he spoke, and his father’s knees were loosened
    where he stood, and his heart melted, as he knew
    the sure tokens which Odysseus told him. About
    his dear son he flung both his arms, and the much-
    enduring, goodly Odysseus caught’ him unto him
               Δι δα. made them heary with fruitage.
                                                          “1

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_438>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 349-375
 fainting. But when he revived, and his spirit re-
 turned again into his breast, once more he made
 answer, and spoke, saying:
    « Father Zeus,verilyye gods yet hold sway on high
 Olympus, if indeed the wooers have paid the price
 of their wanton insolence. But now I have wondrous
read at heart, lest straightway all the men of Ithaca
come hitheragainst us, and send messengers every-
‘where to the cities of the Cephallenians.”
    ‘Then Odysseusofmany wiles answered him, and
said: “Be of good cheer, and let not these things
distress thy heart. But let us go tothe house, which
lies near the orchard, for thither I sent forward Tele-
tmachus and the neatherd and the swincherd, that
‘with all speed they might prepare our meal.”
    So spoke the two, and went their way to the
goodly house. And when they had come to the
stately house, they found Telemachus, and the
neatherd, and the swineherd carving flesh in abun-
dance, and mixing the flaming wine.
    ‘Meanwhile the Sicilian handmaid bathed great-
hearted Laertes in his house, and anointed him with
oil, and about him castafaircloak. But Athene drew
near, and made greater the limbs of the shepherd
of the people, and made him taller than before and
mightier to behold. Then he came forth from the
bath, and his dear son marvelled at him, seeing him
in presence like unto the immortal gods. And he
spoke, and addressed him with winged words :
    “Father, surely some one of the gods that are
forever has made thee goodliertobehold in eomeli-
ness and in stature.”
    ‘Then wise Laertes answered him: “1 would, O
                                                   429

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_440>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 376-40x
     father Zeus, and Athene, and Apollo, that in such
     strength as when I took Nericus,
     citadel on the shore of the mainland,thewhenwell-built
                                                     I was
     lord of the Cephallenians, even in such strength
     hhad stood by thy side yesterday in our house withI
     my armour about my shoulders, and had beaten back
     the wooers, So should I have loosened the knees
     of many of them in the halls, and thy heart would
     have been made glad within thee.”
        So they spoke to one another.
     others had ceased from their labour, But
                                           and
                                                 when the
     ready the meal, they sat down in order on had
                                                 the
                                                      made
                                                     chairs
     and high seats. ‘Then they were
     to their food, when the old man about
                                       Dolius
                                              to set hands
                                                drew near,
     and with him the old man’s sons, wearied
     their work in the fields, for their mother, from   the
     old Sicilian woman, had gone forth and called them,
|   she who saw to their food, and tended the old man
    with kindly care, now that old age had laid hold
    of him. And they, when they saw Odysseus,
    marked -him in their minds, stood in the halls lostandin
    wonder, But Odysseus addressed them with gentle
    ‘words, and said:
        “Old man, sit down to dinner, and do
    forget your wonder, for long have we waitedye wholly
    halls, though eager to set hands to the food,in everthe
    ‘expecting your coming.”
         ο he spoke, and Dolius ran straight toward him
    with both hands outstretched, and he clasped the
    hand of Odysseus and kissed it on the wrist,
    spoke, and addressed him with winged words: and
       “Dear master, since thou hast come back τὸ us,
    who sorely longed for thee, but had no more thought
    to see thee, and the gods themselves have brought
                                                       430

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_442>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 402-428
 thee—hail to thee, and all welcome, and may the
gods grant thee happiness. And tell me this also
truly, that I may know full well. Does wise Pene-
lope ‘yet know surely that thou hast come back
hither, or shall we send her a messenger?”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Old man, she knows already ;why shouldst
thou be busied with thi
   So he spoke, and the other sat down again on the
polished chair. And even in like manner the sons of
Dolius gathered around glorious Odysseus   andgreeted
hhim in speech, and clasped his hands, ‘Then they
sat down in order beside Dolius, their father.
   So they were busied with their meal in the halls ;
but meanwhile Rumour, the messenger, went swiftly
thoughout all the city, telling of the terrible death
and fateofthe wooers, And the people heard it all
at once, and gathered from every side with moanings
and wailings before the palace of Odysseus. Forth
from the halls they brought each his dead, and
buried them; and those from other cities ‘they
sent each to his own home, placing them on swift
ships for seamen to bear them, but they themselves
went together to the place of assembly, sad at heart.
Now when they were assembled and met together
Eupeithes arose and spoke among them, for com-
fortless grief for his son lay heavy on his heart, even
for Antinous, the first man whom goodly Odysseus
had slain, Weeping for him he addressed their
assembly and sai
   “Friends, a monstrous deed has this man of ἃ
truth devised against the Achaeans. Some he led
forth in his ships, many men and goodly, and he has
lost his hollow ships and utterly lost his men; and
                                                    433

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_444>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 429-455
others again has he slain on his return, and these
by far the best of the Cephallenians. ΝᾺ then,
‘come, before the fellow goes swiftlytoPylos or to
‘goodly Elis, where the Epeans hold sway, let us_go
forth ; verily even in days to come shall we be dis
graced forever. For a shame is this even for men
that are yet to be to hear of, if we shall not take
vengeance on the slayers ofour sons and our brothe1
To me surely life would then no more be sweet;
rather would I die at once and be among the dead,
Nay, let us forth, lest they be too quick for us, and
cross over the sea.”
    So he spoke, weeping, and pity Inid hold  ofallthe
‘Acheane’”    Tien   neat them  came   Medon   and. the
divine minstrel from the halls of Odysseus, for sleep
had released them ; and they took their stand in the
midst, and wonder seized every man. ‘Then Medon,
wise of heart, spoke among them:
    ““Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, for ve
not without the will of the immortal gods has
Odysseus devised these deeds. Nay, I myself saw
tn immortal god, who stood close beside Odysseus,
and seemed in all things like unto Mentor. Yet as
an immortal god now in front of Odysseus would he
appear, heartening him, and now again would rage
through the hall, scaring the wooers; and they fell
thick and fast.”
    So he spoke, and thereat pale fear seized them all
‘Then among them spoke the old lord Halitherses,
son ofMastor, for he alone saw before and after: he
with good intent addressed their assembly, and said:
    “ Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, to the word
that I shall say, Through your own cowardice,
friends, have these deeds been brought to pass,
                                                    435

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_446>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 456-482
 for you would not obey me, nor Mentor, shepherd
 ‘of the people, to make your sons cease from their
 folly. ‘They wrought ἃ monstrous deed in their
 blind and wanton wickedness, wasting the wealth
 and dishonouring the wife of a prince, who, they
 said, would never more return. Now then ‘be it
 thus; and do you hearken to me, as I bid. Let us
 not go forth, lest haply many one shail find ἃ
 bane which he has brought upon himseli”         =
    So he spoke, but. they sprang up with loud eries,
 more than half of them, but the rest remained
together in their seats; for his speech was not to
their mind, but they hearkened to Eupeithes, and
 quickly thereafter ‘they rushed for their arm
‘Then when they had clothed their bodies in gleaming
 bronze, they gathered together in front of the
spacious city. And Eupeithes led them in his folly,
for he thought to avenge the slaying of his son
yet he was himself never more to come back, but
‘was there to meet his doom.
    But Athene spoke to Zeus, son of Gronos, saying:
«Father of us all, thou son’ of Cronos, high above
all lords, tell to me that ask thee what purpose
thy mind now hides within thee. Wilt thou yet
farther bring to pass evil war and the dread din
of battle, or wilt thou establish friendship betwixt
the twain?””
    Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered her, and
said: “My child, why dost thou ask and question
me of this? Didst thou not thyself devise this plan,
that verily Odysseus should take vengeance on these
men at his coming? Do as thou wilt, but I will
tell thee what is fitting. Now that goodly Odysseus
hhas taken vengeance on the wooers, let them swear
                                                  437

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_448>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 483-507
   solemn oath, and let him be king all his days,
 let us on our part bring about ἃ forgetting of andthe
 slaying of their sons and brothers; and let them
 love one another as before, and let wealth and
 peace abound.”
    So saying, he roused Athene, who was already
 eager, and she went darting down from the heights
 of Olympus.
    But when they had put from them the desire
 of honey-hearted food, the much-enduring, goodly
 Odysseus was the first to speak among his
saying: “Let one go forth and see whethercompany,
                                              they be
not now drawing near.”
    So he spoke, and a son of Dolius went forth, he
bade; he went and stood upon the threshold, as and
saw them all close at hand, and straightway
spoke to Odysseus winged words: ‘Here they arehe
close at hand. Quick, let us arm.
   So he spoke, and they rose up and arrayed them-
selves in armour :Odysseus and his men were four,
and six the sons of Dolius, and among them Laertes
and Dolius donned theirarmour, grey-headed though
they were, warriors perforce. But when they had
clothed their bodies in gleaming bronze, they
opened the doors and went forth, and Odysseus led
them,
   Then Athene, daughter of Zeus, drew near them
in the likeness of Mentor both in form and in voice,
and the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus was glad
at sight of her,andstraightway spoke to Telemachus,
his dearson:' “
   “Telemachus, now shalt thou learn this—having
thyself come to the place of battle, where the best
warriors are put to the               i

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_450>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 508-534
 upon the house of thy fathers, for we have ever ex:
 celled in strength and in valour over all the earth.”
    ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: “Thou shalt
 see me, if thou wilt, dear father, in my present
 temper bringing no disgrace upon thy house, even
as thou sayest.”
    So said he, and Laertes was glad, and spoke,
saying: “What a day 15 this for me, kind gods!
 Verily right glad am I: my son and my son's son
are vying with one another in valour.”
    ‘Then fashing-eyed Athene came near him and
said: Son of Arecisius, far the dearest of all my
friends, make a prayer to the flashing-eyed maiden
and to father Zeus, and then straightway raise aloft
‘thy long spear, and hurl it.”
    So spoke Pallas Athene, and breathed into him
great might. Then he prayed to the daughter of
great Zeus, and straightway raised aloft his long
spear, and hurled it, and smote Eupeithes through
the helmet with cheek-piece ofbronze. This stayed
not the spear, bat the bronze passed through, and
he fell with a thud, and his armour clanged about
him. Then on the foremost fighters fell Odysseus
and his glorious son, and thrust at them with swords
‘and double-pointed spears: And now would they
have slain them all, and cut them off from returning,
had not Athene, daughter of Zeus, who bears the
         shouted aloud, and checked all the host,
   “refrain, men of Ithaca, from grievous war, that
with all speed you may ‘part, and that without
bloodshed.”
   So spoke Athene, and pale fear seized them. Then
in their terror the arms flew from their hands and
                                                     ἧς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_452>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 535-548
fell one and all to the ground,asthe goddess uttered
her voice, and they turned toward the city, eager to
save their lives. Terribly then shouted the much.
enduring, goodly Odysseus, and gathering himself
together he swooped upon’ them like an eagle of
lofty fight, and at that moment the son of Cronos
cast. a flaming thunderbolt, and down it fell before
‘the lashing-eyed daughter of the mighty sire. Then
flashing-eyed Athene spoke to Odysscus saying:
   “Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus of
many devices, stay thy hand, and make the strife of
‘equal war το cease, lest haply the son of Cronos be
‘wroth with thee, even Zeus, whose voice is borneafar.”
   So spoke Atliene, and he obeyed, and was glad at
heart, ‘Then for all time to come a solemn covenant
betwixt the twain was made by Pallas Athcne,
daughter of Zeus, who bears the aegis, in the likeness
of Mentor both in form and in voice.
       1 Pomibly banefel”;  seethenoteonii,286,




     :                                             443

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_466>>>
THE       LOEB         CLASSICAL
                      LIBRARY
       VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED


AMMIANUS
   Vols, 1. and MARCELLINUS.
                 If, Ynd Insp. revived.) J. C. Rolf. 3 Vois,
ADULEIUS. THE GOLDEN ASS (METAMOR-
  THOSESY,_W. Adlington (1800). Reved by. Gass
si AUGUSTINE,
fi          eevee, adh   CONFESSIONSmaVol OF.  Τρ 5h W.Fp.)Wats
 1. AUGUSTINE, SELECT LETTERS. 1.H.Baier,
Sughsius, ἢ, ὃς relma γήμας. 2 Vals.
BEDE, J.J King,3 Vols
BORTHIUS:’ TRACTS axe DE CONSOLATIONE
  BHILOSOPHIAE. er Hi P. Stewart an BK
 Rand (th
cABSAR   fs WARS, A.6,Pesket. ( fe
       CIVIL
cATULLUS
  Henin aapαν, URVIGILLUM
               ΑΝ, Chin, ripuLLUS.
                          VENERIN 7.J.B.W:
CHLSUS: DEDi,MED taxa, W. G Spence. 8 Vols.
    i BRUPES tp
CICERO          ea)ORATOR. 6. L. Hendsictson
 «πὰHM. Hubbel. (ndImp.)
                               1

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_467>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
CICERO: DR FATO: PARADOXA STOICORU!
  DETARTINONE ORATOIUA. H.Kuckhan, (With
CICERO!BE FINIBUS,                 HL Rackham.      (Grd Imp.
c{gEH6)   pe waTuna DEORUM ax» ACADENICA,
     ackham.
CICERO: DE OFFICUS. Water Mile, (4 Zmp.)
CIGEKO: DEORATORE. “EW Sutton ant 'H,
  Rackham,
CICERO
 ten  W,   DE KEFUBLICA
          Ker      Gnd  Imp)    ax DE LEGIBUS.
αἰδανο      BE ΡΝWe ΟΝ Falconer.
  DIVINATIONE.                   πε, De (thamtorrta,
                                               Imp.)         be
CICERO;
  SULEA, INPRO'PEACCO.
                CATILINAM, ‘LouPROB MUIGNA,
                                          Lords (itn       Pro
CICERO?
 Sful
    Vols,  LETTERS
           (Vol  1. δὰ  τὸZeyaATTICUS.
                                Vol   Ul 8rdB. Ἴαρ.
                                                0. Winsted
                                                      and Vol,
     398)
CICERO:
  Wane,    TRITERS
            τὸ Vo       TO HIS
                       (vols   [and  FRIENDS.
                                      Ind      Ja)  W. Glynn
cue PiltriatS                    GA Ker a
Giceno:     "rnd    anchia,       Post ΠΡΟ ΟΝ. pe
  DOMO, DE HARUSPIGUM RESPONSIS, 'PRO
  PLANCIO. ἮΝ,ἘΣ Watts. (2ndJnp.)
CICERO:    PRO'CAECINA,
  PRO OLUENTIO.       PRO RABINO. PRO LEGE       MANILIA,
                                           Ii. Grose     Hodge,
  (2ndImp.) PRO MILONE, IN PISONEM, PRO
CICERO?”
  ‘SCAURO, PRO FONTEIG, PRO RABIRIO Pos-
  TUMO,   PRO MARCELLO,
  REGE DEIOTARO,             PRO LIGARIO, PRO
                    Ν. H. Watts.
CICERO:   PRO QUINCTIO,
  PRO ROSCIO.   COMOEDO,PRO CONTRA
                               ROSCIO AMERINO,
                                       RULLUM.
αἰεπονἀνFeSOOLAN BiseutatiONs, J.B. King.
οἶδεν
  wood ὁ  VeRRINE ORATIONS. L. ἡ. G. Green
       Vol,
CUNGBIAN,
COLUMELEA'  it,Patonuer,_RUSHICA™
              DERE           9 Vols HLB. Ash. ὁ Vols,
  vali Beaks Lave
                               2

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_468>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
CURTIUS,    Q.: HISTORY
  Holte, 9 Vols.  Vol.I. OF ALEXANDER. J.C.
FLORUS.οἶς 8, Yorstr: and CORNELIUS NEPOS,
FRONTINUS:       STRATAGEMS
  Ὁ Ἑ, Bennett and Μ᾽ B. McElwain,sm AQUEDUCTS.
FRONIO: CORRESPONDENCE. Ὁ. R. Haines. 9 Vols.
GELLIUS. J.C, Rolfe. $ Vols, "(Vol I. 2nd Imp.)
HORACE; ODES aro EPODES. Ὁ“, ‘Bennet. (120h
HORAvised νατιππο, ERISTLES, ARS PORTICA,
τ Ἐςἐξ
    Feirlough, (6h I
SUVENAL svn PERSIUS. Ὁ.Τὴ          G.Pek,
                                        Ramaay. Wei,(δέν Jp.)
ἸΑΝῪ ἐν δἰ    Fost F
as
 LUCAN.fare Vol Duit.
           "J.D.  the Ii,πὰand In.
                                Σ΄ send.
Eochind8)
MAHAL          Witt
              W.  G4.    KerBowe3   uh ΓΝ,
                                   Vole       Οὐδ LM imp,
  Vol. Il. SrdImp, rooted),
MINOR’ LATIN’ PORTS:* from Posuuav Sxace to
  Tors
  Sicunis,  Nacaruxvs, Avrases,
           Niwascares,     includingwithGnarrios,   Cacronsr03
  anaes,
   (ondJ     poems. Wight Duff end Ατοοιὰ M.Phoenix”
                                            “Aetna,”      Dull
ovib:   "ile
  J.B. Mozley, ART
                 (Gnd OF   LOVE
                       Jnp.)         ax     OTHER      POEMS,
OVID:
OVID. HEROIDES axoJames
         TAS,    “Bie          G.raze, Grant Showerman,
                           AMORES.
οἱ Ὁ Shnuacagtoses, 2, αι ste.» Yn
  (SrdImp.)

CUBS REG os BEM, κι τς Wie,
MRS
  AOS          nna,det          rues     ὙΝ
                                       eee
κι ed hak ie RATA,                        i    a
 EteΜὲ LeEHHitehingon, Vals”Ras tannin
 Laas
ΤᾺΝ
    9                    5
                                (Vole 1 0hImp Vol

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_469>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
PLINY: NATURAL IISTORY. 1H, Rackham and
  W.H.S, Jones HB.
PROPERHIUS.          10 Vols.ButlerVols.(Sth L-IV.Zmp.)(Vol T.2nd Imp.)
QUINTILIAN. 11.διButler, ἃ Vols.” (ond Jmp.)
REMAINS
  ‘Vols. Vol,OF (Ennius
                   OLD' LATIN.            Ἐ- Hi. Warmington. 4
                              andCaecilius).            VolIL.(Livius,
  Naevius, Pacuvius, Accius). Vol. IIL (Lucilius,                 Laws
  of the XII Tables).” Vol. IV. (Archaic Tnseriptions).
SALLUST. J. C.Rolfe. πὰ Imp.revised)
SCRIPTORES HISTORIAE AUGUSTAE. Ὁ, Magic,
  '3Vols, (Vol. I. 2ndJmp.revived.)
SENECA: APFOCOLOCYNTOSIS. Of, PETRONIUS,
SENECA; EPISTULAR MORALES. Ἐ, Μ, Gummere.
  8 Vols," (Vol. 1. ϑγὰ Jmp., Vols. Il. and ΠῚ. πὰ Jp,
   ested) MORAL ESSAYS. J. W. Basore. 8 Vols
 SENECA:
   (Vol.
 SENECA,        It2nd         Jp,reused) "P.J.Mills, @Volx (Vol.
                     TRAGEDIES.
   cd J,VellaTip,rind)»
   9  ONTUR,Vols. PORIIS
                       V o l     I .       ANBLETTERS. W. 3,Anderson
 SILIUSITALICUS, J.D.Duf, 9 Vols (VolIL 2ndImp.
 STATIUS. “JH. Moziey,
SUBTONIUS,                            Can        2 Vols,
                                                   Valu (Vo 1.6 Inpy
     el Th,5 fp
TACITUS:
  COLAain             DIALOGUS,
                          CERMANIA.” |          SixNasi
                                                    Wm,Peterson:
                                                             Hatton,ὁ. aud(3h AGRI-
                                                                               Imp)
TACITUS?
   ‘and J, Jackson,    HISTORIES               ano   ANNALS,
                                      4 Vols. “(Vols2 Vol
                                                        I. and (Vo       IE
                                                                il. 2nd Gin,
                                                                           Jp.Moore
TERENCE:
     ak ILδὲαTop.        ohm          Sargeant
TERTULLIAN?
   "ER,         Glover:              APOLOGIATELIX.
                               MINUCIUS             ayn DE ὁ.SPECTACULIS,
                                                                  H, μὲν.
                                                                      Rendall
VALERIUS
VAIO:              DE FLACCUS.
                             LINGUA          J.H.
                                             LATINA,Mosley,
                                                          “it.(nd
                                                               G.  Kent.   revived.)
                                                                             9 Vola
   (nd I
VELEEES
  AUGUST.              pavERCULUS
                              F.     W. Shipley.   ayo RES OESTAR DIV!
VIRGIL, H.W. Faiclough.” 9 Vols. (Vol. 160hImp.
VITRUVIUS:
  (Wol Ld mp.)
                         4 DEXRCHIPECTORA, . τιF. Grange.       Granger.9 Vols
                                       4

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_470>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY

                    ‘OnEEK AUTHORS
ACHILLES TATIUS. 5. Gaselee.
AENEAS ‘TACTICUS, ASCLEPIODOTUS axo ONA-
  SANDER. TheὉ,illino's
AESCHINES,         Ὁ, Adame,Greele Club.
AESCHYLUS, H. Welr Smyth. 9 Vols. (Vol I. 5th Imp
  Vol. I dth mp.)
APOLLODORUS) sirJamesG. Frazer. 2 Vols. (2nd Jp.)
‘APOLLONIUS RHODIUS. ἘΝ.C.Seaton. (4h Imp.)
THE{VoAPOSTOLIC
       τ δὰ Dem VolFATHERS.
                        TL mn)Kirsopp Lake. 2 Volx
APPIAN'S ROMAN MISTORY. “Horace White. 4 Vols
ARATE, Morimp,Arti Vols ΠΙᾺ    ΜΠ and lV. 2nd Imp.)
                          acHUs,
               WES, “Benjamin Bickley Rogers. 8 Vols
 (dis Tap.) Vere
AMISTOPLE:       rane
              “ART  OP RHETORIC. J. I. Freese
  (ond
ASCH,   n p ) anapNtan    constiryrion,   uDE-
  MIAN ETHICS,
 (nd Inp.)
                 VIICTUDS ax  VICES. H. Raccham,
anid. GENERATION OF ANIMALS. A. ἵν
ARISTOTLE:
  Sd Fn METAPHYSICS. H. Tredennick. 9 Vols
ASIOHE,           MINOR
                    Tunas WORKS,
  Couovns, Os Ox"δελανκίχοῦν Hann,”      W. 5. πος, OxOr
                                        Pavoasouia,
  Prawn
  Prone,     Ox   lxarenace    Tinos,
                              Loves,    Haun,
                                      Servers   Muongszeue
                                                 ax Nass
  or  Winpe’Ox
allsndtte,”       Maison,   Xerorsanan,
                  NiCOMACHEAN            azo   Conots
                                         EHUCS. "Tack
   ba.    (A   np    ae
ARISTONLE,"GECONOMICA,
  TIA.” G.δ᾽Armstrong. (\VilsayoMetaphysis,
   ia os me neaves. ¥..6 onn
                                          MAGNA Vol:MORA-TL)
AAEBM,
HEGEL,
 ΕΝ        ox pin aoc,ganea gona,
 ὋΝ BREATH. WS. Hett. “(nd imp. revised.)
                             ὃ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_471>>>
TUE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
  ARISTOTLE: ORGANON. H. P, Cooke and H. Tre:
   ‘dennik. 8 Vols. Vol.I.
 ARISTOTLE: PARTS GF ANIMALS, A. Τα Peck;
   MOTION AND(udPROGRESSION.
 ABSEQERE                   ine)                 OF ‘ANIMALS:
                    HYSICS.”     Rev. P. Wicksteed    andB.M,
AARISTOTLE:
   Genter 3Val             (Val  αι θὰ  Fup)
                   POETICS saoTONGINUS. W, Hamil
         Fyfer DEMETRIUS ON SIYLE, W. Rhys
   Robern’ (ah dnp. . fein)
 ARISTOTLE: POLITICS. 'H,Rackham. (2nd Inp.)
ARISTOTLE: PROBLEMS. Ὑ. 5. Hett. 2 Vols
ARISTOTLE: RHETORICA AD ALEXANDRUM,
   Ἡς Rackham, (WithProblems,          Vol.
 ARMIAN: HISTORY OF ALEXANDER axo INDICA,
   Rev. Ἐς Iliffe Robson. 2 Vols,
ATHENAEUS: DEIPNOSOPHISTAR, 6. B, Gullek,
   1 Vol, (Vols ¥. and ΥἹ Sud Imp.)
 SE BASIE: LETTERS, HJ.                    Deferan, Vel.ας
CALLIMACHUS xp "LYCOPHRON. A.
   ARATUS. Ὁ.π΄Mai,
CLEMENT oF "ALEXANDRIA. Rer.G.W. Butterworth,
     ‘Offs, or
DEMOSTHENES! oRPIAN,
 TPEGAHONE CAὩΣ View
                  -CORONA   ave DB._FALSA
                       ood 30    Vice “nd
DitloSitNes;  μεῖρτλθ,ARIGIOGETION.
 GUATES, HMOCRATES      aNDROTION, ARISTO-ML
     Vinee,
 DEMOSTHENES: OLYNTHIACS, PHILIPPICS axo
    MINOR ORATIONS: I-XVIL. ano XX. J. H. Vinee,
DEMOSTHENES: PRIVATE ORATIONS” asp IN
    NEAPRAM. “A Murray. SVol (Vol nd Παρ.
DIO CASSIUS: ROMAN HISTORY. I,Cary. Ὁ Vols
     (Vals. Τ and {1 2nd Imp.)
DIO. CHRYSOSTOM. δ᾽ Vols. Vole. 1, and II. J. W.
    Coteon. VolIl. W.Colcon and i. Lamar Crosby.
  οι ἐν,
pidbonus           rosy.
  Vols,LV. ‘siGuLusoe     H. Olifather, 12 Vols
                         μ᾿
DIOGENES LAKIETUS.“RB, atcks, 9 Voln (Vol
 1rdIng Vo Sdn)

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_472>>>
THE LOKB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
DIONYSIUS
  QUITIES, OF"Splna’s
                HALICARNASSUS:
                      translation roviedROMAN
                                           by ANTI-
                                               Cary.
EPICTETUS.        Wok. ‘Oldfather.       2 Vols.    (Vol. 1. 2nd
BURIRIDES.
  th Jp, Vol A.ITT8. and
                     Way,TV.Sth4 Vols.
                                  dnp.)   (Vols
                                           Verse I.and Th
                                                 tran
eOSETUs.ccLRSIA
    keandJ.EL. Oulton,   SCAT 9 TiisOIY.
                                      Vols. (Vol. Kopp
                                                    Tle Sd
oft ON THE NATURAL FACULTIES. A.5.
mieci
              BUCOLIC PORTS (ruRocrirus,
  BION, MOSCIIUS). “J. M. linens." (Gok Imp.
ORG
 Guiaει κου
         Jae ANDBavwnue
                   LAMWUS Ὁ wow
                            Woo.” mun(ohANACRE-
                                           ead
it MATURMATICAL WORKS. Ivor Thomas,
HENODES,
HERODOTUS        7. 4D,
                      THEOPIIRASTUS;
                              Godie     ὁ     CHARACTERS.
                                            Vole   ak bel.
BESIOB'isp 7  Vale IV:
                 THE     and  J)
                        HOMERIC      HYMNS, Ἡ. G. Breiya
  Witter
HIPPOCRATES (0th inp.   τον     and enlarges)
                     κὰν τὴς FRAGMENTS              OF HERA-
  GuEITUS.
   Sea ep        W.it-S.Jonesand      #1,  Withington.    Velo
 WOMEN? ILIAD,
             ΦΡΥΒΘΚΥ.    A.TMunay.
                             AT.  Μααν,   9 Vols.
                                             2  Vota (th
                                                      (δε    Imp.)
                                                           ip)
TSAMUS. Se5.“Cesrge
ISOcRanes.          Forster. Norn
                               Gnd ὑπερ
                                     ταῦ LaRue Van Hook,
siSAPIL
    JOHNRenDAMASCENE:
             6, fe ood      BARLAAM
                                an    Hood ANDMatty.
                                                 I0A-
  [even be, 3. Thackeray and Ralph Marcus.
aGStPLTOS.
  OValy Vote
SULIAN.      Lil.Gave(Wal
          Whines     Weight  nd8Voln”tmp)(Wola I.nd11
  rd np)
                                τ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_473>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
LONGUS: DAPHNIS axp CHLOE. Thornley's Trans-
  lation revised by J. M, Edmonds; saxo PARTHENIUS.
 S$.Gaseee. (Sraἧπερ.)
LUCIAN," A. ME Harmon, 8 γοις, Volu IV. νοι,
  Jana Th 3d In)
LYCOPHRON. ‘Gf:CALLIMACHUS.
LYRA GRABCA. J. Μ. Edmonds. 8 Vols. (Vol. 1.
  Srd Imp. Vol Il. Sud Ba.revisedand enlarged, Voli
 Sed
LYSIAS”Imp.revised)
             ΤΣ                  (ond Zep)
MANETHO." W. ὁ, “Waddell                    LEMY: TETRA.
MARCUS AURELIUS. Ὁ. Ἀ.Haines. (SrdJmmp.revisad)
MENANDER.
MINOR ATTIC F.G,        Allinson. 2 (2nd
                   ORATORS.”         Vols.”Imp,
                                              Vol.revised.)
                                                       I. ANTT-
  PHON, ANDOCIDES. K. J,Maidiment.
NONNOS: DIONYSIACA. “W,H,Ὁ, Rouse. 8 Vols.
   Wal ΤΠ Sud Imp)
OfPLAN,
PAPYRL COLLUTHUS       7RYPHIODORUS,
             |NON-LITERARY,         SELECTIONS,A.W. αὐMair5°
  ‘Hunt and Ὁ. Ὁ,            2 Vols LITERALLY Βεῖο:
  TIONS. Val.                   Deb. Page.         (nd Imp.)
PARTHENTUS, -(/, DAPHNIS ayo ΘΗ ΟΕ.
PAUSANIAS;
  Sone ieDESCRIPTION  Sar  OF
                            ol GREECE,
                                  range hyW.11.S.
                                             Re
PHILO.Pil
       rf
        TT Vols, vot.
                   Volsi       FE ason and
                             i H.Coleon. (Wal.Re
PAMZg
  TYANASRe?       ue tareὁ oF
          YCConsieare.     VolsaPOLLONIUS
                                   (Vo I rdfn,oF
PIILGSTRATOS)
 ‘DESCRIPTIONS. IMAGINES;
                A.Fairbanks, CALLISTRATUS.
PLARO                       “ip resin
  PBI LOVERS THEKGHS, INOS a0fiFPkecuras,
         CHARMIDES    ALofbrADES    LPINOMIS:
PLATO.
 ἘΠΕ    GRATYLUS, PARMENIDES,        GREATER
  im) ESSER HIPDIAS.ῃ
                               WN owl      (Gd

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_474>>>
THE LORB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
πάτο;
   DO,PHAEDRUS,HUTHYPHIRO,      |, Ν᾽APOLOGY,
                                         βοήν, (SchoRITO,  tmp) PHAE-
PLATO;DEMUS.” LACHES,WI     M. PLOTAGORAS,
                                  Lamb.      (2nd     MENG,
                                                     Jp.       vy AY:
                                                          rovied,)
PLATO: LAWS.               “Kev. HG. Bury. 2 Volo. (2nd Jmp)
PLATO:         EXSIS,
   amb. (UkJ. reed)       SyMPOSIUM,           "GoRGIAS ὙΠΟ,
PLATO: KalREPUBLIC.
paid                    Uh  2nd      Paul Shorey. 2 Voix (Vol.L
                                    me)
THON:   ‘TO: Welt
                STATRSMAN,   MeLaniy   PHILEBUS.
                                        Graze.            HL. N. Fowler:
PLATO, THEARISTUS                      ao SOPIST, τον, Yow,
   (Grd     Jp.)
riATOr TIMAEUS, CHETIAS, CLITOPONENEXE.
   RUS RVISNULAL,
PLUTARGI:             MOKALIA     |Mor 180.   VatBur,VotsGudImp)
   Babbitt
   Vowler. Vel. VI. W. Οἱ Ποιὰ ;Vel. Ἀν ἀκ
PLUTARCH,olsIME,Ly τι-PARALE        111, Vin,DL,VIE.LIVES,
                                                      and Xt. πὶSindPes
                                                                     fp)
ΡΝ Wi. Eston,” 6-Von.
PROCOPIUS:
   Dewing. 7 Vols.HISTORY     (Vol. 1. OFSudἴηι.)
                                               THE WARS. H. B.
PIOLEMY: TETRABIBLOS. Cf MANETHO.
QUINTUS SMYRNARUS. Α, S. Way. Verse trans,
   (GndImp.)
SEXTUS
   Nols, EMPIRICUS,
                [-Π|. (Vol. 1. ϑπὰRev.  Imp.) R. G. Bury. 4 Vols
SOPHOCLES,
   ἯΙ behmp) ΒΕ.           Store.trans,9 Vols. (Vol
                        Verse                            I.ΤὰImps Vol.
STRABO:
   (Vols. 1,V.GEOGRAPHY,
                     and VIL.              Horace L. Jones. 8 Volu
                                     2ndJmp.)
THEOPHRASTUS:
   HERODES,ete.ΑἹCHARACTERS.      Ὁ, Knox. @nd Imp.)    J. M. Edmonds;
THEOPHRASTUS:
  ‘Arthur Hort. 2 Vols.ENQUIRY INTO PLANTS. Sit
THUCYDIDES.
   ‘Vols. WI, andC.F       IV. 9nd Smith,
                                        finp.4Vols.
                                              resis.) (Vol.1.Srd Impy
‘TRYPHIGDORUS, 67 OPPIAN,
XENOPHON:
   (Vol. 1 2nd mp.,    CYROPAEDIA.
                            Vol, Il. Sra Fmp.)  Walter Mille, 9 Vols,
                                        °

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_475>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
XENOPHON: HELLENICA, ANABASIS, APOLOGY,
  S Volz, (Vols,             .
XENQPHON: ‘MEMORABILIA “hiOECONOMICUS,
  EC. Marchant,SCLIETA SHINORA. E. C.Marchant
XENOPHONS
 Gnd Imp.)
         VOLUMES IN PREPARATION
               (OREEK AUTHORS
ALCIPHRON. A, R, Benner and F, H, Fobes,
ARISTOTLE: DE MUNDO, εἰς. W. KC. Guthrie.
ARISTOTLE: HISTORY Of ANIMALS.” A. L. Peck,
ARISTOTLE: METEOROLOGICA. HD. P. Lee,
DEMOSTHENES:
     iB.       EPISTLES, ets, “N. W. and Ν, J
                LATIN AUTHORS
8. AUGUSTINE CITY OF GOD. |W. H. Semple.
 (CICERO ἡAD HERENNIUM. Ἡ, Caplan.
EICERO: DE INVENTIONE,. H. 3 Hubbell
CICERO: PRO SESTIO, “IN “VATINIUM, PRO
  CAELIO, DE PROVINCIIS CONSULARIBUS, PRO
  BALBO.’ 1. H. FreeseandR.Gardner.
PRUDENTIUS, Η,J. Thomson.


   DESORIPTIVE PROSPEOTUS ON APPLICATION
