<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_012>>>
THE       ODYSSEY

                  BOOK       XIII
    So he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence,
and were spelibound throughout the shadowy halls.
‘And Aleinous again answered him, and said:
    “Odysseus, since thou hast come to my high-roofed
house with floor of brass, thou shalt not, methinks,
be driven back, and return with bafled purpose,
‘even though thou hast suffered much. And to each
man of you that in my halls are ever wont to drink
the flaming wine of the elders, and to listen    tothe
minstrel, Ispeak, and give this charge. Raiment
for the stranger lies already stored in the polished
chest, with gold curiously wrought and all the other
  ifts which the counsellors of the Phaeacians brought
  ther. But, come now, let us give him ἃ great
tripod and a cauldron, each man of us, and we in
tum will gather the cost from among the people, and
repay ourselves. It were hard for one man to give
freely, without requital.”
    So spake Alcinous, and his word was pleasing to
them. They then went, each man to his house, to
take their rest; but as soon as early Dawn appeared,
the rosy-fingered, they hastened to the ship and
brought the bronze, that gives strength to men.
‘And the strong and mighty Alcinous went himself
                                                      3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_014>>>
“THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 21-46
    throughout the ship, and careful stowed the gifts
    beneath the benches, that they lymight         not hinder
    any of the crew at their rowing, when they           busily
    plied the oars. Then they went to the house               of
    Alleinous, and prepared a feast.
       And for them the strong
   sacrificed a bull to Zeus, son ofandCronos,
                                           mighty Alcinous
                                                   god of the
   dark cloudwho  s, islord of
                             all.    Then,     when  they had
   bumed the thigh-piecesthey  , feastedaglorious feast,
   and made merry, and among them the divine min.
   strel Demodocus, held in honour by the        people, sang
 tothe lyre. But Odysseus would ever turn
   toward the blazing sun, eager to see it set, forhis verily
                                                          head
  he was eager to return home. And as a man longs
  for supper, for whom all day longayoke ofwine-darke
  oxen has drawn the jointed
  land, and gladly for him doesploughthe
                                             through fallow
                                           light
  sink, that he may busy him with his supper,of and   the sun
                                                            his
  knees grow weary as he goes; even 80 gladly for
  Odysseus did the light of sun sink. Straightway
 then he spoke among the thePhaeacia     ns, lovers of the
 ‘oar, and to Aleinous above all he declared        his word,
 and sai
     “Lord Aleinous, renowne
 libations now, and send ye med onabove my
                                             all men, pour
                                             way
 sand yourselves too—Farewell |For now allin thetpeace;    my
 heart desired has been brought to pass: a convoy,
and gifts of friendship. May the gods of heaven
bless them to me, and on my
my home my peerless wife withreturnthosemayI love   I find in
                                                          un-
seathed; and may you again, remaining here, make
glad your wedded wives
gods grant you prosperityandof ‘children
                                  every
                                           ; and may the
                                         sort,  and may no
evil come upon your people.
                                                            5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_016>>>
*       THE ODYSSEY, ΧΠῚ. 47-15
     So he spoke, and they all praised his words, and
  bade send the stranger on his way, since he’ had
 spoken fittingly. Then the mighty Alcinous spoke
  to the herald, saying: « Pontonous, mix the bowl,
and serve out wine to all in the hail, in order that,
  when we have made prayertofather Zeus, we may
 send forth the stranger to his own native land.”
     So he spoke, and Pontonous mixed the honey-
 hearted wine and served out to all, coming up to
  each in turn; and they poured libations to the
 Dlessed gods, who hold ‘broad heaven, from where
 they sat.” But goodly Odysseus arose, and placed in
 the hand of Aretethetwo-handled eup, and spoke,
 and addressed her with winged words:
     “Fare thee well, O queen, throughout all the
 ‘years, till old age and death come, which are the lot
 of morals. As for me, Igo my way, but do thou in
 this house have joy of thy children and thy people
 and Aleinous the king.”
     So the goodly Odysseus spake and passed over the
 threshold. And with him the mighty Aleinous sent
 forth a herald to lead him to the swift ship and the
shore of the sea. And Arete sent with him slave
 women, one bearing a newly washed cloak and a
 tunie, and another again she bade follow to bear
the strong chest, and yet another bore bread and
red. wine.
     But when they had come down to the ship and
to the sea, straightway the lordly youths that were
his escort took these things, and stowed them in
tthe hollow ship, even all the food and drink. ‘Then
for Odysseus they spread ἃ rug and a linen sheet
fon the deck of the hollow ship at the stern, that
he might sleep soundly; and he too went aboard,
                                                     ?

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_018>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 76-104
  and laid him down in silence. ‘Then they sat
  down on the benches, each in order, and loosed the
  hhawser from the pierced stone. And as soon as they
  leaned back, and tossed the brine with their oar
  blades, sweet sleep fell upon his eyelids, an un-
  awakening sleep, mostsweet, and most like to death.
  And as on a plain four yoked stallions spring forward
 all together beneath the strokes of the lash, and
 leaping on high swiftly accomplish their way, even
 so the stern of that ship leapt on high, and in her
 ‘wake the dark waveof the loud-sounding sea foamed
 mightily, and she sped safely and surely on her way;
 not even the circling hawk, the swiftest of winged
 ‘things, could have kept pace with her. ‘Thus she
 sped on swiftly and clove the waves of the sea,
 Dearing aman the peer of the gods in counsel, one
 who in time past had suffered many griefs at heart
 {in passing through wars ofmen and the grievous
 waves; but now he slept in peace, forgetful of all
 that he had suffered,
    Now when that brightest of stars rose which
 ever comes to herald the light of early Dawn,
even then the seafaring ship drew near to the
island.
    ‘There is in the land of Ithaca a certain harbour of
 Phoreys, the old man of the sea, and at its mouth
 two projecting headlands sheer to seaward, but slop-
ing down on the side toward the harbour. These
keep back the great waves raised by heavy winds
without, but within the benched ships lie umoored
when they have reached the point of anchorage. At
the head of the harbour is a Iong-leafed olive tree,
and near it a pleasant, shadowy eave sacred to the
nymphs that are called Naiads.” Therein are mixing

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_020>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 105-133
π΄ ον: and jars of stone, and there too the bees store
    honey. And in the eave are long looms of stone, at
    which the nymphs weave webs of purple dye, a
    wonder to behold; and therein are also ever-fowing
    springs. Two doors there are to the cave, one
    toward the North Wind, by which men go down,
    but that toward the South Wind is sacred, nor do
    men enter thereby; it is the way of the immortals.
        Here they rowed in, knowing the place of old;
    and the ship ran full half her length on the shore in
    her swift course, at such pace was she driven by the
    arms of the rowers. ‘Then they stepped forth from
   tthe benched ship upon the lend, and first they lifted
    Odysseus   outof the hollow ship, with the linen sheet
   and bright rag as they were, and laid im down on
   the sand, still overpowered by sleep. And they
   lifted out the goods which the lordly Phacacians had
   given him, as he set out for home, through the
   favour of great-hearted Athene. ‘These they set all
   together by the trunk of the olive tree, out of the
   path, lest haply some wayfarer, before Odysseus
   awoke, might come upon them and spoil them. Then
   they themselves returned home again. But the
   Shaker of the Earth did not forget the threats where-
   ‘with at the first he had threatened godlike Odysseus,
   and he thus enquired of the purpose of Zeus :
        “Father Zeus, no longer shall I, even I, be held
   in honour among the immortal gods, seeing that
   mortals honour me not a whit—even the Phaeacians,
   who, thou knowest, are of my own lineage. For I
   bbut now declared that Odysseus should suffer many
   woes ere he reached his home, though I did not
   wholly rob him of his return when once thou hadst
   promised it and confirmed it with thy nod yet in

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_022>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΠῚ. 134-16r
  his sleep these men have borne him in a swift ship
  over the sea and set him down in Ithaca, and have
  given him gifts past telling, stores of bronze and gold
  ‘and woven raiment, more than Odysseus would ever
  have won for himself from Troy, if he had returned
  unscathed with his due share of the spoil.”
     Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered him, and
 said: “Ah me, thou shaker of the earth, wide of sway,
  what athing hast thou said! ‘The gods do thee no
 dishonour; hard indeed would it be to assail with
 dishonour our eldest and best. But as for men, if
 ‘any one, yielding to his might and strength, fails to
 do thee honour in aught, thou mayest ever take
 vengeance, even thereafter, Do as thou wilt, and
 as is thy good pleasure,”
     Then Poseidon, the earth-shaker, answered him:
 “Straightway should I have done as thou sayest,
 thou god of the dark clouds, but I ever dread and
 avoid thy wrath. But now Iam minded to smite the
 fair ship of the Phaeacians, as she comes back from
 hhis convoy on the misty deep, that hereafter they
 may desist and cease from giving convoy to men,
 and to fling a great mountain about their city.”
     Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered him and
said: “Lazy one, hear what seems best in my sight.
‘When all the people are looking forth from the city
upon herasshe speeds on her way, then do thou
turn her to stone hard by the land—a stone in the
shape of a swift ship, that all men may marvel; and
do thou fiing a great mountain about their city.’
    Now when Poseidon, the earth-shaker, heard this
he went his way to Scheria, where the Phacacians
well, and there he waited. And she drew close
toshore,theseafaring ship, speeding swiftly on her
                                                       13

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_024>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 162-189
way. ‘Then near her came the Earth-shaker and
tured her to stone, and rooted her fast beneath by
ἃ blow of the flat of his hand, and then he was gone.
    But they spoke winged yords to one another, the
 Phaeacians of the long oars, men famed for their
   ips. And thus would one speak, with a glance at
his neighbour:
    “Ah me, who has now bound our swift ship on
the sea as she sped homeward? Lo, she was in
plain sight.”
     ‘So would one of them spesk, but they knew
not how these things were to be. Then Aleinous
addressed their company and said :
    “Lo now, verily the oracles of my father, uttered
long ago, have come upon me. He was wont to say
that Poseidon was wroth with us because we give
safe convoy to all men, He said that some day, as
‘a beautiful ship of the Phaeacians was returning from
aemnvoy over the misty deep, Poseidon would smite
her,and would fling a great mountain about our town.
So that old man spoke, and lo, now all this is being
brought to pass. But now come, as I bid let us all
obey. Cease ye to give convoy to mortals, when
anyone comes to our city, and let us sacrifice to
Poseidon twelve choice bulls, if haply he may take
pity, and not fling a lofty mountain about our
town”
    So he spoke, and they, were seized with fear and
made ready the bulls. “Thus they were praying to
the lord Poseidon, the leaders and counsellors of the
land of the Phaeacians, as they stood about the altar,
but, Odysseus awoke Gut of his sleep in his native
land. Yet he knew it not after his long absence,
for about him the goddess had shed a mist, even
                                                     45

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_026>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII, 190-218
 Pallas Athene, daughter of Zeus, that she might
render him unknown, and tell him all things, so that
 his wife might not know him, nor his townsfolk, nor
 his friends, until the wooers had paid the fall price
of all their transgressions. ‘Therefore allt
seemed strange to their lord, the long paths, the
bays offering safe anchorage, the sheer clif s, and the
luxuriant trees. So he sprang up and stood and
looked upon his native land, and then he grosned
and smote both of his thighs with the fat of his
hands, and mournfully spoke, and
    “Woe is me, to the land of what mortals am I
now come? Are they cruel, and wild, and unjust?
or do they love strangers and fear the gods in their
thoughts? Whither shall I bear all this wealth, or
whither shall 1 myself go’ wandering on? Would
that I had remained there among the Phaeacians,

                        Ὁ yet here will I not leave it,
lest haply it become the spoil of others to my cost.
Out upon them ;not wholly wise, it seems, nor just
were the leaders and counsellors of the Phaeacians
who have brought me toa strange land. Verily they
said that they would bring me to clear-seen Ithaca,
but they have not made good their word. May Zeus,
‘the suppliant’s god, requite them, who watches over
all men, and punishes him that sins. But come,
Twill number the goods, and go over them lest to
my cost these men have carried off aught with them
in the hollow ship.””
   So he spake, and set him to count the beautiful
tripods, and the cauldrons, and the gold, and the
                                                    x7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_028>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 219-249
  fair woven raiment, and of these he missed nothing,
  ‘Then, mournfully longing for his native land, he
  paced by the shore of the loud-sounding sea, uttering
  many amoan. And Athene drew near him in the
  form of a young man, aherdsman of sheep, one most
  delicate,ἐδare the sons of princes. In a double fold
 ‘about her shoulders she wore a well-wrought cloak,
 and beneath her shining feet she had sandals, and in
 her hands ἃ spear. Then Odysseus was glad at
      cht of her, and came to meet her, and he spoke,
 and addressed her with winged word
     “Friend, since thou art the first to whom I have
 ‘come in this land, hail to thee, and mayst thou meet
 me with no evil mind. Nay, save this treasure, and
 save me; for to thee do I pray, as to a god, and am
 come to thy dear knees. And tell me this also traly,
 that I may know full well. What land, what people
isthis? What men dwell here? Is {t some clear-
 seen island, or a shore of the deep-soiled mainland
‘thatliesresting on the sea?”
     ‘Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him: “A fool artthou, stranger, orart come from far,
 if indeed thou askest ofthis land. Surely itis no wise
 so nameless, but full many know it, both all those
 who dwell toward the dawn and the sun, and all those
 that are behind toward the murky darkness.          It is a
 ragged isle, not fit for driving horses, yet it is not ut-
 terly poor, though it be but narrow. Therein grows
 corn beyond measure, and the wine-grape as well, and
 the rain never fails it, nor the rich dew. It is a good
 land for pasturing goats and kine; there are frees
 of every fort and init also pools for watering that
 fail not the year through. Therefore, stranger, the
 name of Ithviea has reached even tothe land of Troy.
 which, they say, is far from this land of Achaea.”
                                                         19

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_030>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 250-278
     So she spake, and the much-enduring,           go dly
  Odysseus wes glad, and rejoiced in his lind, the
  land of his fathers,ashe heard the word of Pallas
  Athene, daughter of Zeus, who bears the aegis ;and
  he spoke, and addressed her with winged words; yet
  he spoke not the truth, but checked the word ere it
 was uttered, ever revolving in his breast thoughts
 of great cunning:
    Theard of Ithaca, even in broad Crete, far over
 the sea; and now have 1 myself come hither with
 these my goods. And I left as much more with
 my children, when 1 fled the land, after I had slain
 the dear son of Idomeneus, Orsilochus, swift of
 foot, who in broad Crete surpassed in fleetness all
 men that live by toil, Now he would have robbed
 me of all that booty of Troy, for which I had borne
    ief of heart, passing through wars of men and the
 grievous waves, for that I would not shew favour
 ἴο his father, and serve as his squire in the land
 of the Trojans, but commanded other men of my
 own, 801 smote him with my bronze-tipped spear
 as he came home from the field, lying in wait for
 him with one of my men by the roadside, A dark
night covered the heavens, and no man was ware
of us, but unseen I took away his life. Now when
Τ had slain him with the sharp bronze, I went
straightway to a ship, and made prayer to the lordly
Phoenicians, giving ‘them booty to satisfy their
hearts. I bade them take me aboard and land me
at Pylos,orat goodly Elis, where the Epeans hold
sway. Yet verily the force of the wind thrust them
away from thence, sore against their will, nor did
they purpose to play me false; but driven wandering
from thence we came hither by night With eager

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_032>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 279-307
 haste we rowed on into the harbour, nor had we any
 thought of supper, sore as was our need of it, but
 even as we were we went forth from the ship and
 lay down, one and all. Then upon me came sweet
 sleep in my weariness, but they took my goods out
 of the hollow ship and set them where I myself lay
 fon the sands, And they went on board, and de-
 parted for the well-peopled land of Sidon; but I
 ‘was left here, my heart sore troubled.”
    So he spoke, and the goddess, fashing-eyed
 Athene, smiled, and stroked him with her hand, and
 changed herelf to the form of ἃ woman, comely
 and tall, and skilled in glorious handiwork. An
 she spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
    “Canning must he be and knavish, who would go
 beyond thee in all manner of guile, aye, though it
were a god that met thee. Bold’ man, crafty in
counsel, insatiate in deceit, not even in thine own
land, it seems, wast thon to cease from guile and
deceitful tales, which thou lovest from the bottom
of thine heart. But come, let us no longer talk of
this, being bothwell versed in craft, since thou art
far ‘the best of all men in counsel’ and in speech,
and [among all the gods am famed for wisdom and.
craft. Yet thou didst not know Pallas Athene,
daughter of Zeus, even ine, who ever stand by thy
side, and guard thee in all toils. Aye, and I made
thee beloved by all the Phaeacians, "And now am I
‘come hither to weave a plan with thee, and to hide
all the treasure, which the lordly Phaeacians gave
thee by my counsel and will, when thou didst set
out for home; and to tell thee all the measure of
woe it is thy fate to folfl in thy well-built house.
But do thou be strong, for bear it thou must, and
                                                  23

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_034>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 308-334
     tell no man of them all nor any woman that thou
     hast come back from thy wanderings, but in silence
     endure thy many grief, and submit fo the violence
        Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
     said: “Hard is it, goddess, for a mortal man to
     know thee when he meets thee, how wise soever
     he be, for thou takest what shape thou wilt. But
     this [ know well, that of old thou wast kindly
     toward me, so long as we sons of the Achaeans
     were warring in the land of Troy. But after we
     had sacked the lofty city of Priam, and had gone
     away in our ships, and a god had scattered the
     Achaeans, never since then have I seen thee,
     daughter of Zeus, nor marked thee coming on board
     my ship, that thou mightest ward off sorrow from
     me. Nay, 1 ever wandered on, bearing in my
     breast a stricken heart, till the gods delivered me
     from evil, even until in the rich land of the
     Phaeacians thou didst cheer me with thy words,
    and thyself lead me to thei ety. But now Ibex
    seech thee by thy father—for Ithink not that I am
    come to elear-seen Ithaca;nay, it is some other land
    over which I roam, and thou, methinks, dost speak
    thus in mockery ἴο beguile my mind—tell me
    whether in very truth I'am come to my dear native
    land.”
       Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
    him: “Ever such is the thought in thy breast, and
    therefore it is that I cannot leave thee in thy
sorrow, for thou art soft of speech, keen of wit, and
    prudent. Eagerly would another man on his réturn
    from wanderings have hastened to behold in his
    halls his children and his wife; but thou art not
                                                      ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_036>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 335-361
  yet minded to know or learn of aught, till thou
ἦαοι furthermore proved thy wife, who abides as of
old in her halls, and ever sorrowfully for her the
nights and days wane,asshe weeps. But as for me,
I never doubted of this, but in my heart knew
well, that thou wouldest come home after losing; all
thy ‘comrades. Yet, thou must know, I was not
minded to strive against Poseidon, my father's
brother, who laid up wrath in his ‘heart against
thee, angered that thou didst blind his dear son.
But come, I will shew thee the land of Ithaca, that
thou mayest be sure. This is the harbour of
Phoreys, the old man of the sea, and here at the
head of the harbour is the long-leafed olive tree,
and near itis the pleasant, shadowy cave, sacred to
the nymphs that are called Naiads. This, thou
must know, is the vaulted cave in which thon wast
wont to offer to the nymphs many heeatombs that
bring falfllment; and. yonder is Mount Neriton,
clothed with its forests.”
    So spake the goddess, and scattered the mist,
and the land appeared. Glad then was the much-
enduring, goodly Odysseus, rejoicing. in his own
land, and he kissed the earth, the giver of grain,
And straightway he prayed to the nymphs with ‘up-
stretched hands
    “Ye Naud Nymphs, daughters of Zeus, never
did I think to behold you again, but now I hail you
with loving prayers. “Aye, and gifts too will I give,
as aforetime, if the daughter of Zeus, she that drives
the spoil, shall graciously grant me to live, and shall
bring to manhood my dear son.””
   Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
      a                                              Ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_038>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 362-389
  him again: Be of good cheer, and let not these
 things distress thy heart, But’ let us now forth-
 with set thy goods in the innermost recess of the
 wondrous cave, where they may abide for thee in
 safety, and let us ourselves take thought how all
 may be far the best.”
    So saying, the goddess entered the shadowy eave
 and searched out its hiding-places. And Odysseus
 brought all the treasure thither, the gold and the
 stubborn bronze and the finely-wrought raiment,
 which the Phacacians gave him. These things he
 carefully laid away, and Pallas Athene, daughter
 of Zeus, who bears the aegis, set a stone at the
 door. Then the two sat them down by the trunk
 of the sacred olive tree, and devised death for the
 insolent wooers. And the goddess, flashing-eyed
 ‘Athene, was the first to speak, sayin
    «Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, take thought how thou mayest put
 forth thy hands on the shameless wooers, who now
for three years have been lording it in thy halls,
wooing thy godlike wife, and offering wooers’ gi
And she, asshe mournfully looks forthy coming, offers
hopes to all, and has promises for each man, sendinj
them messages, but her mind is set on other things.’
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lonow,ofa suretyIwaslike to have perished
in my halls by the evil fate of Agamemnon, son of
Atreus, hadst not thou, goddess, duly told me all.
Bat come, weave some plan bywhich I may requite
them ard stand thyel! byty aide and cada me
with dauntless courage, even as when we loosed the
bright diadem of Troy. Wouldest thou but stand
by my side, thou flashing-eyed one, as eager as thou
                                                   29

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_040>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIII. 390-417
 wast then, I would fight even against three hundred
 men, with thee, mighty goddess, if with a ready
 heart thou wouldest give me aid.”
     Then the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him:“Yea verily, I will be with thee, and will not
 forget thee, when we are busied with this work ;
 and methinks many a one of the wooers that
 devour thy substance shall bespatter the vast earth
 with his blood and brains. But come, Iwill make
 thee unknown toall mortals. I will shrivel the fair
 skin on thy supple limbs, and destroy the flaxen
 hair from off thy head, and clothe thee in a ragged
 garment, such that one would shudder to see ἃ man
 clad therein. And I will dim thy two eyes that
 were before so beautiful, that thou mayest appear
 mean in the sight of all the wooers, and of thy
wife, and of thy son, whom thou didst leave in thy*
halls. And for thyself, do thou go first of all to the
grincherd who Keeps thy swine, and withal has ας
Kindly heart towards thee, and loves thy son and
constant Penelope. ‘Thou wilt find him abiding by
the swine, and they are feeding by the rock of
Corax and the spring Arethusa, eating acorns to
their heart's content and drinking the biack water,
things which cause the rich flesh of swine to wax
fat. ‘There do thou stay, and sitting by his side
question him of all things, while I go to Sparta, the
land of fair women, to summon thence Telemachus,
thy dear son, Odysseus, who went to spacious Lace
daemon to the house of Menelaus, to seek tidings
of thee, if thou wast still anywhere alive.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her:
“Why then, I pray thee, didstthou not tell him,
thou whose mind knows all things? Nay, was it
                                                    3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_042>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XII. 418-440
  baply that he too might suffer woes, wandering
 over the unresting sea, and that others might
 devour his substance ?”
     Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
 him: Nay verily,notfor him be thy heartovermuch
 troubled. It wasI that guided him, that he might
 win good report by going thither, and he has no
 toil, but sits in peace in the palace of the son of
 Atreus, and good cheer past telling is before him.
 ‘Truly young men in a black ship lie in wait for him,
 eager ‘to slay him before he comes to his native
 land, but methinks this shall not be. Ere that shall
 the ‘earth cover many a one of the wooers that
 devour thy substance.”
    ‘So saying, Athene touched him with her wand.
 She withered the fair flesh on his supple limbs, and
destroyed the flaxen hair from off his head, and
about all hislimbs she pat the,skin of an aged old
man. And she dimmed his two eyed that were be-
fore so beautiful, and clothed him inother raiment, «
vile ragged cloak and ἃ tunic, tattered garments and
foul, begrimed with filthy smoke. And about him
she cast the great skin of ἃ swift hind, stripped of
the hair, and she gave him a staff, and’a miserable
wallet, fall of holes, slung by a twisted cord.
    So when the two had thus taken counsel together,
they parted; and thereupon the goddess went to
goodly Lacedaemon to fetch the son of Odysseus.



                                                 33

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_044>>>
BOOK XIV
    Bor Oayoseus went fort from the harbour by the
 rough path up over the woodland and through the
 heights to the place where Athene had shewed him
 that he should find the goodly swineherd, who eared
 for his substance above all the slaves that goodly
 Odysseus had gotten.
    He found him sitting in the fore-hall of his
 house, where his court was built high in a place
 of wide outlook, a great and goodly court with an
 open space around it. This the swincherd hed
 himself built for the swine of his master, that was
‘gone, without the knowledge of his mistrets and the
 old man Laertes. With huge stones had he built it,
and set on it ἃ coping of thorn. Without he hed
driven stakes the whole length, this way and that,
hhuge stakes, set close together, which he had made
by splitting an oak to the black core; and within
the court he had made twelve sties close by one
another, as beds for the swine, and in each one were
penned fifty wallowing swine, females for breeding;
bat the boars slept without. ‘These were far fewer
in numbers, for on them the godlike wooers feasted,
and lessened them, for the swincherd ever sent in
‘the best of all the fated hogs, which numbered
three hundred and sixty. By these ever slept four
dogs, savage as wild beasts, which the swineherd had
       ἃ Others ronder, “splitting off the black bark.”
                                                        35

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_046>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 23-50
reared, a leader of men. But he himself was fitti
boots about his feet, cutting an oxchide of goi
 colour, while the others had gone, three of them, one
 here one there, with the droves of swine; and the
 fourth he had sent  tothe city todrive perforce a boar
to the insolent wooers, that they might slay it and
satey their souls withmet
    Suddenly then the baying hounds caught sightof
Odysseus, and rushed upon: him with lord barking,
but Odysseus sat down in his cunning, and the stait
fell from his hand. ‘Then even in his own farmstead
‘would he have suffered cruel hurt, but the swineherd
with swift steps followed after them, and hastened
through the gateway, and the hide fell from his
hand. He called aloud to the dogs and drove
them this way and that with a shower of stones, and
spoke to his master, and sai
   Old man, verily the dogs were like to have torn
thee to pieces all of a sudden, and on me thou
wouldest have shed reproach. Aye, and the
hhave given me other griefs and sorrows. It isfor a
godlike master that I mourn and grieve, as I abide
here,   andrear fat swine for other men to eat, while
he haply in want of food wanders over the land and
city of men of strange speech, if indeed he still lives
and sees the light ofthe sun, But come with me
let us go to the hut, old man, that when thou hast
satisfied thy heart with food and wine, thou too
mayest tell whence thou art, and all the woes thou
hast endured.”
   So saying, the goodly swincherd led him to the
hut, and brought him in, and made him sit, strowing
beneath thiek brushwood, and thereon spreading the
skin ofashaggy wild goat, large and hairy, on which
                                                     3

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_048>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 51-76
 he was himself wont to sleep. And Odysseus was
 glad that he gave him such welcome, and spoke, and
 addressed him:
    “Stranger, may Zeus and the other immortal gods
 grant thee what most thou desirest, since thou with
 ἃ ready heart hast given me welcome.”
    To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
answer, andsay : “ Nay, stranger,  itwerenot right for
 me, even though one meaner than thou were to come,
toslighta stranger: for from Zeusare all strangers and
 beggars,  andagift,though small, swelcome from such
aswe; since thisis the lot of slaves, ever in fear when
 over them as lords their masters hold sway—young
 masterssuch   asours. For verily the gods have stayed
 the return of him who would have loved me with all
 kindness, and would have given me possessions of my
 own, a house and a bit of land, and a wife, sought of
‘many wooers, even such things as ἃ kindly master
 gives to his thrall who has toiled much for him, and
 whose labour the god makes to prosper, even as this
‘work of mine prospers,to which Igive heed. There-
fore would my master have richly rewarded me, if he
had grown old here at home: but he perished—as I
would all the kindred of Helen had perished in
utter ruin, since she loosened the knees of many
warriors. "For he too went forth to win recompense
for Agamemnon to Ilios, famed for its horses, that
he might fight with the Trojans.”
   80 saying, he quickly bound up his tunic with
belt, and went to the sties, where the tribes of swine
‘were penned. Choosing two from thence, he brought
them in and slew them both, and singed, and cut
them up, and spitted them. Then, when he bad
roasted all, he brought and set it before Odysseus,
                                                     39

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_050>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 77-105
  hot upon the spits, and sprinkled over it white
  barley meal. Then in'a bowl of ivy wood he mixed
  honey-sweet wine, and himselfsat down over against
  Odysseus, and bade him to his food, and said:
     “Eat now, stranger, such food as slaves have to
  offer, meat of young pigs; the fatted hogs the wooers
  cat, who reck not in their hearts ofthe wrath of the
  gods, nor have any pity. Verily the blessed gods
  love not reckless deeds, but they honour justice and
  the righteous deeds of men, Even erael foemen
 that set foot on the land of others, and Zeus gives
 them booty, and they fill their ships and depart for
 home—even on the hearts of these falls great fear of
 the wrath of the gods. But these men here, look
 you, know somewhat, and have heard some voice of
 ἃ god regarding my master's pitiful death, secing
 that they will not woo righteously, nor go back to
 their own, but at their ease they waste our sub-
 stance in insolent wise, andthere isno sparing. For
 every day and night ‘that comes from Zeus they
 sacrifice not one vietim nor two alone, and they draw
 forth wine, and waste it in insolent wise. Verily his
 substance was great past teling, so much has no lord
 either on the dark mainland or in Ithaca itself; nay,
 not twenty men together have wealth so great. Lo,
 I will tell thee the tale thereof; twelve herdsof kine
hhas he on the mainland; as many flocks ofsheep; as
many droves of   swine; asmanypacked herds of goats
do herdsmen, both foreigners and of his own people,
pasture, And here too graze roving herds of goats
‘on the borders of the island, eleven in all, and over
them trusty men keep watch. And each man of
these ever drives up day by day one of his flock for
                                                    “

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_052>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 106-132
the wooers, even that one of the fatted goats which
seems to him the best, But asfor me, I guard and
keep these swine, and choose out with eare and send,
‘them the best of ‘the boars.”
    So he spoke, but Odysseus eagerly? ate flesh and
drank wine, greedily, in silence, and was sowing the
seeds of evil for the wooers. But when he had
dined, and satisfied his soul with food, then the
swineherd filled the bow] from which he was himself
‘wont to drink, and gave it him brim full of wine, and
hie took it, and was glad at heart; and he spoke, and
addressed him with winged word
    “Friend, who was it who bought thee with his
wealth, aman so very rich and’ mighty, as thon
tellest? ‘Thou saidest that he died to win recom-
pense for Agamemnon; tell me, if haply may know
him, being such     anone. For Zeus,         Iween, and the
other immortal gods know whether I have seen him,
and could bring tidings; for I have wandered far.”
    Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
him: “Old man, no wanderer that came and brought
tidings of him could persuade his wife and his dear
‘son nay, at random, when they have need of enter-
tainment, do vagabonds lie, and are not minded to
speak the truth." Whosoever in his wanderings comes
to the land of Ithaca, goes to my mistress and tells
fa deceitful tale. And she, receiving him kindly,
fives him entertainment, and questions him of a
things, and the tears fall from her eyelids, while she
‘weeps, a5 is the way of a woman, when her husband
      afar, And readily wouldest thou too, old man,
fashion a story, if one Would give thee a cloak and ἃ
  2ntvedas
‘cwih        appears theeverywhere
        Linknele™          etjnclgyelseiwancertain. 1 mneunin, χὰ
                                                              43

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_054>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 133-160
 tunic for raiment. Butasfor him, ere now dogs and
 swift birds are like to have torn’ the flesh from his
 ones, and his spirit has left him; or in the sea
 fishes have eaten him, and his bones lie there on
 the shore, wrapped in deep sand. Thus has he
 perished yonder, and to his friends grief is appointed
 for daystocome,toall, but most of all to me. For
 never again shall 1 find a master so kind, how far so-
 ever Igo, not though I come again to the house of
 my father and mother, where at the first. I was born,
 and they reared me themselves, Yet it is not for
 them that I henceforth mourn so much, eager though
 Tam to behold them with my eyes and to be in my
 native land ; nay, it is longing for Odysseus, who is
 gone, that seizes me. His name, stranger, absent
 though he is, I speak with awe, for greatly did he
 love me and care for me at heart; but I call him
 my lord beloved, for all he is not here.”
    ‘Then the imuch-enduring, goodly Odysseus
auawered     bina: "Friend, singe thoa dost atten
 mnake denial, and declarest that he will never come
again, and thy heart is ever unbelieving, therefore
will I tell thee, not at random but with an oath,
that Odysseus shall return, And let me have ἃ
reward for bearing good tidings, as soon as he shall
come, and reach his home; elothe me in. a cloak
and tunic, goodly raiment. But ere that, how sore
soever my need, I will accept naught; for hateful in
my eyes as the gates of Hades is that man, who,
yielding to stress of poverty, tells a deceitful tale.
Now be my witness Zeus, above all gods, and this
hospitable board, and the hearth of noble Odysseus
to which 1 am’ come, that verily all these thin
shall be brought to pass even as I tell thee. In
                                                     “5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_056>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 161-185
the course of this self-same year! Odysseus shall
‘come hither, as the old moon ‘wanes, and the new
appears, He shall return, and take ‘vengeance on
all those who here dishonour his wife and his
glorious son.”
   To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou
make answer, and say: “Old man, neither shall 1,
meseems, pay thee this reward for bearing good tide
ings, nor shall Odysseus ever come to his home.
Nay, drink in peace, and let us tum our thoughts
to other things, and do not thou recall this to my
mind; for verily the heart in my breast is grieved
whenever any one makes mention of my good
master. But asfor thy oath, we will let it bes yet
Iwould that Odysseus might come, even as I desire,
I, and Penelope, and the old man Laertes, and
filike Telerachine, But now it for bls sou, that
     eve unceasingly, even for Telemachus, whom
Offetees    ‘beget, “When the goss hat made him
growlike a sapling, and I thought that he would be
among men no whit worse than his dear father,
glorious in form and comeliness, then some one of
the immortals marred the wise spirit within him, or
hap some man, and he went to sred Pyle after
   lings of his father. For him now the lordly
trooets Ie dn walt on “his homeward way, that the
race of godlike Arceisius may perish out of Ithaca,
and leave no name. But verily we will let him be;
he may be taken, or he may escape, and the son of
Cronos stretch forth his hand to guard him, But
come, do thou, old man, tell me of thine own
  ὁ Inἴδrendering
μιὰ       the      AvedBerrer by
              interpretation  of “dag”
                                 the   iatend
                                       whale    ofby“yen,”
                                             passage, I”have
followed Monro,
                                                         “

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_058>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 186-214
 sorrows, and declare me this truly, that 1 may know
 fall well. Who art thou among men, and from
 whence? Where is thy city, and where thy parents?
 On what manner of ship didst thou come, and how
 did sailors bring thee to Ithaca? Who did they
 declare themselves to be? For nowise, methinks,
 didst thou come hither on foot.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: “Then verily I will frankly tell thee all,
 Would that now we two might have food and sweet
 wine for the while, to feast on in quiet here in thy
 hut, and that others might go about their work;
 easily then mightItell on for a fall year, and yet
 in no wise finish the tale of the woes of my spirit—
 even all the toils that Ihave endured by the will
 of the gods.
    «From broad Crete I declare that I am come by
 lineage, the son of a wealthy man. And many
other sons too were born and bred in his halls, true
sons of a lawful wife; but the mother that bore me
 was bought, a concubine. Yet Castor, son of Hylax,
of whom I declare that I am sprung, honoured me
even as his true-born sons. He was at that time
honoured as a god among the Cretans in the land
for his good estate, and his wealth, and his glorious
sons. But the fates of death bore him away to the
house of Hades, and his proud sons divided among
them his substance, and cast lots therefor. To me
they gave a very small portion, and allotted a
dwelling. But I took unto me a wife from a house
‘that had wide possessions, winning her by my
valour; for I was no weakling, nor a coward in
fight. "Now all that strength is gone; yet even so,
in seeing the stubble, methinks thou mayest judge
                                                   49

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_060>>>
4)
              THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 215-243
    what the grain was; for verily troubles in full
    measure encompass me. But then Ares and Athene
    gave me courage, and strength that breaks the ranks
    of men; and whenever I picked the best warriors
    for anambush, sowing the seeds of evil for the foe,
    never did my’ proud spirit forbode death, but ever
    far the first did I leap forth, and slaywith my spear
    whosoever of the foe gave way in flight before met
    Such a man was I in war, but Iabour in the field was
    never to my liking, nor the care of ahouschold,
    which rears goodly children, but oared ships were
    ever dear tome, and wars, and polished spears, and
    arrows—grievous things, whereat others are wont
    to shudder. But those things, I ween, were dear to
    me, which ἃ god put in my heart ;for different men
    take joy in different works. For before the sons of
    the Achaeans set foot on the land of Troy, I had
    nine times led warriors and swift-faring ships against
    foreign folk, and great spoil had ever fallen to my
    hands. Of this 1 would choose what pleased my
    mind, and much I afterwards obtained by lot. Thus
    my house straightway grew rich, and thereafter I
    Decame one feared and honoured among the Cretan.
       “But when Zeus, whose voiceis borne afar, devised
    that hateful journey which loosened the knees of
    many a warrior, then they bade me and glorious
    Idomeneus to lead the ships to Iios, nor was there
    any way to refuse, for the voice of the people
    pressed hard upon us. ‘There for nine years we sons
    of the Achaeans warred, and in the tenth we sicked
    the city of Priam, and set out for home in our ships,
    and a god scattered the Achacans. But for me,
    wretched man that I was, Zeus, the counsellor,
       + Or possibly, “ whoover was less fet offoot thanI.”
                                                          st
Ι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_062>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 244-272
  devised evil. For amonth only I remained, taking
 joy in my children, my wedded wife, and my wealth;
  and then to Egypt did my spirit bid me voyage with
  ἘΣ godlike comrades, when 1 had ftted out my
         with care. Nine ships 1 fitted out, and the
  how gathered “speedily. "Then for six days my
 ‘trusty comrades feasted, and I gave them many
  vietins, that they might sacrifice to the gods, and
 prepare a feast for themselves ;and on the seventh
 we embarked and set sail from broad Crete, with the
  North Wind blowing fresh and fair, and ran on easily
 as if down stream. No harm came to any of my
 ships, but free ftom scathe and from disease we
 sat, and the wind and the helmsman guided the
 ships.
     On the ith day we came   tofair-fowing Aegyptus,
 and in the river Aegyptus I moored my curved
 ships. ‘Then verily I bade my trusty comrades to
 remain there by the ships, and to guard the ships,
 and I sent out scouts to’ go to places of outlook.
 But my comrades, yielding to wantonness, and led
 on by their own might, straightway set about. wast
 ing the fair fields of the men of Egypt; and they
 carried of the women and little cbildren, and slew
 the men; and the ery came quickly to the city.
Then, hearing the shouting, the people came forth
at break of day, and the whole plain was filled with
footmen, and chariots and the flashing of bronze.
But Zeus who hurls the thunderbolt east an evil
panic upon my comrades, and none hed the courage
to hold his ground and face the foe; for evil sur-
rounded us on every side. So then they slew many
of us with the sharp bronze, and others they led_up
totheir city alive, to work for them perforce, But
                                                   53

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_064>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 273-300
 in my heart Zeus himself put this thought—I would
 that I’had rather died and met my fate there in
 Egypt, for still was sorrow to give me welcome
 Straightway T put of from my head my well wrought
 helmet, and the shield ffon off my shoulders, and
 let the spear fall from my hand, and went toward
 the chariot horses of the king. I clasped, and
 kissed his knees, and he delivered me, and took
 pity on me, and, setting me in his chariot, took me
 weeping to his home. Verily full many rushed
 upon me with their ashen spears, eager to slay me,
 for they were exceeding angry. ut he warded
 them off, and had regard for the wrath of Zeus, the
stranger's god, who above all others hath indignation
at evil deeds.
    “There then I stayed seven years, and much
wealth did I gather among the Egyptians, for all men
gave me gifts. But when the eighth circling year
‘was come, then there came a man of Phoenicia, .well
versed in guile, a greedy knave, who had already
wrought much evil among men. He prevailed upon
me by his cunning, and took me with him, until we
reached Phoenicia, where lay his house and his
possessions. There I remained with him for a full
year. But when at length the months and the days
‘were being broughttofulfilment, as the year rolled
round and the seasons came on, he set me on a
seafaring ship bound for Libya, having given lying
counsel to the end that I should conveyacargo with
hhim, but in truth that, when there, he might sell me
and geta vast price. So I went with him on board the
ship, suspecting his guile, yet perforce. And she ran
before the North Wind, blowing fresh and fair, on a
mid-sea course to the windward of Crete, and Zeus
                                                    55

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_066>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 301-327
devised destruction for the men. But when we had
left Crete, and no other land appeared, but onlysky
and sea, then verily the son of Cronos set a blac!
cloud above the hollow ship, and the sea grew dark
beneath it. Therewith Zeus thundered, and hurled
his bolt upon the ship, and she quivered from stem
to stern, smitten by the bolt of Zeus, and was filled
with sulphurous sinoke, and all the crew fell from
out the ship. Like sea-crows they were borne on
the waves about the black ship, and the god took
from them their returning. But as for me, Zeus
himself when my heart was compassed with woe,
put into my hands the tossing? mast of the dark-
prowed ship, that Imight again escape destruction.
Around this I clung, and was borne by the direful
winds. For nine days I was borne, but on the tenth
Dlack night the great rolling wave brought me to
the land of the ‘Thesprotians. There the king of
the Thesprotians, lord Pheidon, took me in, and
asked no ransom, for his dear son came upon me,
overcome as I was with cold and weariness, and
raised me by the hand, and led me until he came to
his father’s palace; and he clothed me in a cloak
and tunic, as raiment.
   “There 1 leamed of Odysseus, for the king said
that he had entertained hin, and given him weleome
on his way to his native land. And he showed me
all the treasure that Odysseus had gathered, bronze,
‘and gold, and iron, wrought with toil; verily unto the
tenth generation would it feed his children after him,
so great was the wealth that lay stored for him in
the halls of the king. But Odysseus, he said, had
  1 Lit, “raging” Otherw render “huge,” “of great.
length?
                                                     57

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_068>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 328-354
 gone to Dodona, to hear the will of Zens from the
 high-crested onk of the god, even how he might re-
 turn to the rich land of Ithaca afterso longan absence,
 whether openly or in secret. And moreover he swore
 in my own presence, as he poured libations in his
house, that theship was launched, and the men ready,
 who were   toconvey him    tohisdear native land. But
 me he sent forth first, for a ship of the Thesprotians
 chancedtobe setting out for Dulichium, rich in wheat.
‘Thither he bade them to convey mewith kindly care,
to king Acastus. But an evil counsel regarding me
 found favour in their hearts, that I might even yet
 be brought into utter misery. When the sea-faring
ship had sale far ftom the land, they presently
 sought to bring about for me the dayofslavery.
‘They stripped me of my garments, my cloak and
 tunic, and clothed me in other raiment, a vile ragged
 cloak and tunic, even the tattered garments which
 thou seest before thine eyes; and at evening they
 reached the tilled fields of clear-seen Ithaca. ‘Then
 with a twisted rope they bound me fast in the
 benched ship, and themselves went ashore, and
 made haste to take their supper by the shore of
 the sea. But as for me, the gods themselves undid
 my bonds fall easily, and, wrapping the tattered
 cloak about my head, 1 slid down the smooth
 lading-plank,? and brought my breast to the sea,
 and then struck out with both hands, and swam,
 ‘and very soon was out of the water, and away from
 them. ‘Then I went up to a place where there
 was a thicket of leafy wood, and lay there erouch-
 ing, And they went           hither and thither with loud

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_070>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 355-382
  cries; but as there seemed to be no profit in going
  further in their search, they went back again on
 board their hollow ship. And the gods theniselves
 hid me easily, and led me, and brought me to the
 farmstend of ἃ wise man; for sil haply i i my lot,
 to live.”
     To him then, swincherd Eumeeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say :“Ah, wretched stranger, verilythou
 hastsized my heart deeply in telling all the fle of
thy sufferings and thy wanderings. But inthis, me-
thinks, thou hast not spoken aright, nor shalt thou
persuade me with thy tale about Odysseus. Why
shouldst thou, who art in such plight lie to no pur-
pose? Nay, of myself Iknow well regarding the το:
‘tum of my master, that he was utterly hated of all
the gods, in that they did not slay him among the
Trojean, or in   the ange of hs Mende, when he had
wound up the skein of war. ‘Then would the whole
host of the Achaeans have made him a tomb, and for
hhis son too he would have won great glory in days to
come. But asit is the spirits of the storm have swept
him away, and left no tidings. I, for my part, dwell
aloof with the swine, nor do 1 go to the city, unless
haply wise Penelope bids me thither, when tidings
come to her from anywhere. Then men sit around
him that comes, and question him closely, both those
that grieve for their lord, that has long been gone,
tnd those who rejoice, as they devour    hissubstance
withoutatonement. ButIcare not       toask or enquire,
since the time when an Aetolian beguiled me with
his story, one that had killed aman, and after wander-
ing over the wide earth came to my house, and. I
gave him kindly welcome. He said that he had
seen Odysseus among the Cretans at the house of
                                                    6

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_072>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV, 383-213
   Idomencus, mending his ships which storms had shat
   tered, And he said that he would come either by
   summer or by harvest-time, bringing much treasure
   along with his godlike comrades. ‘Thou too, old
  of many sorrows, since a god has brought thee to man
  seek not to win iy favour by lies, nor in any wiseme,to
  cajole me. It is not for this that I shall
  thee respect or kindness, but from fear of Zeus,shew  the
  stranger's god, and from pity for thyself.”
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
  said : “Verily thou hast in thy bosom   a heart
  slow to believe, seeing that in such wise, eventhatwithis
  an oath, I won thee not, neither persuade
  come now, let us make ἃ covenant, nd thethee.         But
                                                 gods whe
 hold Olympus shall bewitnesses for us both in time te
 come, If thymaster returns to house clothe me
 ina cloak and tunic, as raiment, this
                                    and send me on my
 way to Dulichium, where I desite tobe. But
 master does not come as I say, set theslaves uponifmethy
 and fling me down from a great clif, that another
 beggar may beware of deceiving.”
    ‘And the goodly swinehe
 “Aye, stranger, so shouldrd Ianswere   d him, andsaid
                                 indeed win fair fame
 and prosperity ‘among men both now
if I, who brought thee to my hut andand gave    hereafter,
                                                      thee
entertainment, should then slay thee, and take away
thy dear life, ’With a ready
IpraytoZeus, son of Cronos.heart Butthereaft
                                         it is
                                               er should
                                               now time
for supper, and may my comrades soon be here,
‘we may make ready a savoury supper in the hut.”” that
    ‘Thus they spoke to one
and the swincherds drew near.another,
                                    ‘The
                                         and the swine
up to sleep in their wonted sties, andsowsa they
                                               wondrou
                                                      shut
                                                         s
noise arose from them     as,they were penned. Then
the goodly swineherd called to his comrades saying:
            -                                           63

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_074>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 414-441
     “Bring forth the best of the boars, that I may
 slaughter him for the stranger who comes from afur,
 and we too shall have some profit therefrom, who
 have long borne toil and suffering for the sake of the
 white-tusked swine, while others devour our labour
  without atonement.”
    ‘So saying, he split wood with the pitiless bronze,
 and the others brought in a fatted boar of five years
 old, and set him by the hearth. Nor did the swine-
 herd forget the immortals, for he had an understand-
 ing heart, but as a first offering he cast into the fire
 bristles from the head of the white-tusked bonr, and
‘made prayer to all the gods that wise Odysseus
might return to his own house. ‘Then he raised
himself up, and smote the boar with a billet of oak,
which he had left. when splitting     thewood, and the
boat's life left him. And the others cut the boar’s
throat, and singed him, and quickly cut him up, and
the swineherd took as first offerings bits of raw flesh
from all the limbs, and laid them in the rich fat.
These he cast into the fire, when he had sprinkled
them with barley meal, but the rest they cut up and
spitted, and rossted it carefully, and drew it all off
 the spits, and cast it in a heap on platters. Then the
swineherd stood up to carve, for well did his heart
know what was fair, and he cut up the mess and
divided it into seven portions. One with a prayer he
set aside for the nymphs and for Hermes, son of Maia,
and the resthe distributed to each. And Odysseus
he honoured with the long chine of the white-tusked
boar, and made glad the heart of his master; and
Odysseus of many wiles spoke to him, and said:
    ““Bumaeus, mayest thou be as dear to father Zeus
‘as thou art to me, since thou honourest me with a
good portion, albeit I am in such plight.”            é

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_076>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 442-468
    ‘To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say: “Eat, unhappy stranger, and have
 joy of such fare as is here. It is the god that will
 give one thing and withhold another, even as seems
 {good to his heart; for he can do all things.”
    He spoke, and sacrificed the firstling pieces to the
 gods that are for ever, and, when he had made liba-
 tions of the flaming wine, he placed the cup in the
 hands of Odysseus, the sacker of cities, and took his
 seat by his own portion. And bread was served to
 them by Mesauliue, whom the swineherd had gotten
 by himself alone, while his master was gone, without
the knowledge of his mistress or the old’ Laertes,
buying him of the Taphians with his own goods. So
 they put forth their hands to the good cheer lying
ready before them. But when they had put from
them the desire of food and drink, Mesaulius took
away the food, and they were fain to go to their
rest, sated with bread and meat.
   ‘Now the night came on, foul and without a moon,
and Zeus rained the whole night through, and the
West Wind, ever the rainy wind, blew strong. Then
Odysseus spoke among them, ‘making trial of the
swineherd, to see whether he would strip off his own
cloak and give it him, or bid some other of his com-
rades to do so, since he cared for him so greatly :
   “Hear me now, Eumaeus and all the rest of you,
his men, with a wish in my heart will I tell a tale;
for the wine bids me, befooling wine, which sets one,
even though he be right wise, to singing and laugh-
ing softly, and makes him stand up and dance, aye,
‘and brings forth a word which were better unspoken.
Still, since Ihave once spoken out, I will hide nothing.
Would that J were young and my strength firm as
                                                      67

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_078>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 469-496
 when we made ready our ambush, and Jed it beneath
 the walls of Troy. The leaders were Odysseus and
 Menelaus, son of Atreus, and with them I was third
 in command ;for so had they ordered it themselves.
 Now when we had come to the city and the steep
 wall, round about the town in the thick brushwood
 among the reeds and swamp-land we lay, crouching
 beneath our arms, and night came on, foul, when the
 North Wind had fallen, and frosty, and snow came
 down on us from above, covering us like rime, bitter
 cold, and ice formed upon our shields. Now all the
 rest had cloaks and tunics, and slept in peace, with
 their shields covering their shoulders, but I, when I
 set out, had left my cloak behind with my comrades
 in my folly, for I did not think that even 8 Jshould
 be cold, and had come with my shield alone and my
 bright kilt! But when it was the third watch of
the night, and the stars had turned thefr course,
then I spoke to Odysseus, who was near me, nudging
im with my elbow 5and he atraightway gave ca
    itSon of Lacrtes, sprong fron Zeus, Odysseus οὗ
many devices, lo now, no longer shall’ I be among
the living. Nay, the cold is killing me, for Ihave
no cloak. Some god beguiled me to wear my tunic
only, and now there is no more escape.’
    So I spoke, and he then devised this plan in his
heart, such ἃ man was he both to plan and to fight;
and speaking in a low voice he said to me: ‘Be
silent now, lest another of the Achaeans hear thee.’
    “With this he raised his head upon his elbow, and
spoke, saying: ‘Hear me, friends;a dream from the
gods came to me in my sleep. Lo, we have come
ery far from the ships, and I would that there were
 δ Others regard the word (uaasbare equivalenttoχυγάν.
                                                    69

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_080>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 497-525
  ‘one to bear word to Agamemnon, son of Atreus,
  shepherd of the host, in the hope that he might bid
  ‘more men to come from the ships.”
     “So he spoke, and ‘Thoas, son of Andraemon,
  sprang up quickly, and from him flung his purple
  cloak, and set out to ran to the ships. ‘Then in his
 garment Igladly lay, and golden-throned Dawn ap-
 peared. Would that I were young as then, and my
 strength os firm; then would one of the swincherds
 in the farmstead give me a cloak both from kindness
 and from respect for abrave warrior. But as it is
 ‘they scorn me, since I have foul raiment about me,
     To him then, swincherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
 answer, and say: “Old man, the tale thou hast told
 is a good one, nor hast thou thus far spoken aught
 amiss or unproftably. Wherefore thou shalt lack
 neither clothing nor aught else that a sore-tried
 suppliant should receive, when he mects one—for
 this night at least; but in the morning thou shalt
shake about thee those rags of thine. For not many
cloaks are here or changes of tunics to put on, but
each man has one alone, But when the degr son of
Odysseus comes, he will himself give thee a cloak
and a tunic as raiment, and will send thee whither-
soever thy heart and spirit bid thee go.”
    So saying, he sprang up and placed a bed for
Odysseus near the fire, and cast upon it skins of
sheep and goats. There Odysseus lay down, and
the swineherd threw over him a great thick cloak,
which he kept at hand for a change of clothing
whenever a terrible storm should arise.
    So there Odysseus slept, and beside him slept the
young men, But the swineherd liked not a bed in
that place, thet he should lay him down away from
                                                    nm

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_082>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIV. 526-533
the boars; so he made ready to go outside, And
Odysseus was glad that he took such care of his
‘master's substance while he was afar. First Eumacus
fing his sharp sword over his strong shoulders, and
then put about him a cloak, very thick, to keep off
the wind; and he picked up the fleece of alarge,
wwell-fatted goat, took a sharp javelin toward off dogs
and men, and went forth to lie down to sleep where
the white-tusked boars slept beneath ahollow rock,
ina place sheltered from the North Wind.




                                                   13

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_084>>>
BOOK      XV

    Bor Pallas Athene went to spacious Lacedaemon
to remind the glorious son of great-hearted Odysseus
of his return, and to hasten his coming. She found
‘Telemachus and the noble son of Nestor lying in
the fore-ball of the palace of glorious Menelaus.
Now Nestor's son was overcome with soft sleep, but
sweet sleep did not hold Telemachus, butall through
the immortal night anxious thoughts for his father
Κορὲ im wakefl, "And fashing-eyed Athene stood
near him, and sai
    “Telemachus, thou dost not well to wander longer
far from thy home, leaving behind thee thy wealth
and men in thy house so insolent, lest they divide
and devour all thy possessions, and thou shalt have
gone on a fruitless journey. Nay, rouse with all
speed Menelaus, good at the war-cry, to send thee
‘on thy way, that thou mayest find thy noble mother
still in her home. For now her father and her
brothers bid her wed Eurymachus, for he surpasses
all the wooers in his presents, and has increased his
gifts of wooing. Beware lest she carry forth from
thy halls some treasure against thy will. For thou
knowest what sort of ἃ spirit there is in a woman's
breast;she is fain to increase the house of the man
who weds her, but of her former children and of the
lord of her youth she takes no thought, when once he
                                                  15

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_086>>>
THE ΟΡ155ΕΥ, XV. 23-49
  1» dead, and asks no longer concerning them. Nay,
  fo, and thyself put all thypossessions in the charge
  ‘of whatsoever one of the handmaids seems to thee
  the best, until the gods shall show thee a noble bride.
 ‘And another thing willItell thee, and do thou lay it
  to heart. The best men of the wooers lie in wait for
 thee of set purpose in the strait between Ithaca and
 rugged Samos, eager to slay thee before thou comest
 to thy native land, But methinks this shall not be;
 cere that shall the carth cover many a one of the
 ‘wooers that devour thy substance. But do thou keep
 thy well-built ship far from the islands, and sail by
 night as well as by day, and that one of the im-
 ‘mortals, who keeps and guards thee, will send a fair
 breeze in thy wake, But when thou hast reached
 the nearest shore of Ithaca, send thy ship and all
 thy comrades on to the city, but thyself go first. of
 all to the swineherd who keeps thy swine, and withal
 has a kindly heart toward thee. There do thou spend
 the night, and bid him to goto the city to bear word
 to wise Penclope that she has thee safe, and thou art
 come from Pylos.”
     So saying, she departed to high Olympus. But
Teiemachus woke tite son of Nestor outuf sweet
sleep, rousing him with a touch of his heel, and
spoke to him, saying:
     “Awake, Peisistratus, son ofNestor; bring up thy
fiery-hoofed? horses, and yoke them beneath the car,
that we may speed on our way.””
     Then Peisistratus, son of Nestor, answered, and
said: “Telemachus, in no wise may we drive through
   2The word is obscare but is now generally connested with
the   rootμα, but“be eager.”
fs untenable,                Tho old
                      th meaning      exymology ” {μόνον
                                 “‘solid-hoofed    is willτὄνυξ)
                                                            -pre-
ferred by some.
                                                              n

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_088>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 50-79
 the dark night, how eager soever for our journey;
 and soonit wil be dawn, Waitthen, until the warrior
 son of Atreus, Menelaus, famed for his spear, shall
 bring gifts and set them on the car, and shall send
 us on our way with kindly words of farewell. For a
 guest remembers all his days the host who shews
 hhim kindness.”
    So he spoke, and presently came golden-throned
 Dawn. Up to them then came Menelaus, good at
 the war-ery, rising from his couch from beside fair-
 tressed Helen, And when the prince, the dear son
 of Odysseus, saw him, he made haste to put about
 im his bright taney and to fing over his mighty
shoulders a greatclonk,and went forth. ‘Then Tele-
‘machus, the dear son of divine Odysseus, came lup to
 Menelaus, and addressed him, saying:
   “Menelaus, son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader
of hosts,sendme back now at length to my dear native
land, for now my heart is eager to return home.”
   Then Menelaus, good at the war-cry, answered
him: Telemachus, I verily shall not hold thee here
along time, when thou    arteager to return. Nay, I
should blame another, who, as host, loves overmuch
or hates overmuch; better is due measure in all things.
"Tis equal wrong if a man speed on a guest who is
loath to go, and if he keep back one that is eager to
be gone. ‘One should make welcome the present
guest, and send forth him that would go. But stay,
tN T bring fair gifts:and put them onthycar, and
thine own eyes behold them, and till Tid the women
make ready a meal in the halls of the abundant store
that is within, It is a double boon—honour and
  ory it brings, and profit withal—that the traveller
should dine before he goes forth over the wide and
                                                     19

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_090>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV, 80-107
 boundless earth. And if thou art fain to journey
 through Hellas and mid- Argos, be ft so, to the en
 that I may myself gowith thee, and I will yoke for
 thee horses and leadthee to the eties of men. Nor
 will any one send us away empty-handed, but will
   jive us some one thing at least to bear with us, a
 {fir brazen tripod or cauldron, or & pair of males,
 or a golden cup.”
     Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Menelaus,
 son of Atreus, fostered of Zeus, leader of hosts,




 store that was within. Up to him then came Bteo-
 neus, son of Boethois, just risen from his bed, for he
 welt not far from him. Him Menelaus,          good at the
 war-ery, bade kindle a fire and roast of the flesh;
 and he heard, and obeyed. And Menelaus himself
 went down to his vaulted? treasure-chamber, not
 alone, for with him went Helen and Megepenthes.
 But when they came to the place where his treasures
 were stored, the son of Atreus took a two-handled
 cup, and bade hisson Megapenthes bear a mixing
 bowl of silver. And Helen came up to the chests in
 which were her richly-broidered robes, that she her.
self hadwrought. One of these Helen, thé beauti-
 ful lady, lifted out and bore away, the one that was
                   2Powsibly “ fragrant.”
                                                        a

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_092>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 108-133
 fairest in its broideries, and the amplest. It shone
 like a star, and lay beneath all the rest. ‘Then they
 went forth through the house until they came to
 Telemachus; and fair-haired Menelaus spoke to him,
 and said :
     “Telemachus, may Zeus, the loud-thundering lord
 of Here, verily bringtopass for thee thy return, even
asthy heart desires. And of all the gifts that lie
 stored as treasures in my house, I will give thee that
 ‘one which is fairest and costliest. I will give thee a
 well-wrought mixing-bowl. It is all of silver, and
 with gold are the rims thereof gilded, the work of
 Hephaestus; and the warrior Phaedimus, king of
 the Sidonians, gave it me, when his house sheltered
 me as I came thither; and now I am minded to give
 ito thee.”
     So saying, the warrior, son of Atreus, placed the
 two-handled    cupin his hands. And the strong Mega-
 penthes rough the bright mixingbowl of silver and
 set it before him, and fair-cheeked Helen came up
 with the robe in her hands, and spoke, and addressed
 him:
     “Lo, 1 too give thee this gift, dear child, « remem-
 brance of the hands of Helen, against the day of thy
longed-for marriage, for thy ‘bride to wear it. But
until then let it lie in thy halls in the keeping of thy
dear mother. And for thyself I wish that with joy
{houmayestreach thy well-built houseand thy naive
Tan
     So saying, she placed itin his hands, and he took
it gladly. And the prince Peisistratus took the gifts,
and laid them in the box of the chariot, and gazed
at them all wondering in his heart. Then fair-haired
 Menelaus led them    tothe house, andthe two sat down
                                                      83

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_094>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 134-161
  on chairs and high seats. And a handmaid brought
  water for the hands in ἃ fair pitcher of gold, and
  poured it over a silver basin for them to wash, and
  beside them drew up a polished table. And the grave
  housewife brought and set before them bread, and
  therewith meats in abundance, granting freely of her
 store. And hard by the son of Boethotis carved the
 meat, and divided the portions, and      the,sonof
   jlorious Menelaus poured the wine. So they put
   rth ther hands to the good cheer lying ready be-
 fore them, But when theyhad put from them the
 desire of food and drink, then Telemachus and the
 gloriousson of Nestor yoked the horses and mounted
 the inlaid car, and drove forth from the gateway and
 the echoing portico. After them went the son of
 Atreus, fair-baired Menclaus, bearing in his right
 hhand honey-hearted wine in a cup of gold, that they
 ‘might pour libations ere they set out. And he took
 his stand before the horses, and pledged the youths,
‘andsaid:
    «Fare yewell, young men, and bear greeting to
 Nestor, shepherd ofthe host, for verlly Ne was,kind
 ἃς a father to me, while we sons of the Achaeans
 warred in the land of Troy.”
    ‘Then wiseTelemachus answered him : “Aye, verily,
 king, fostered of Zevs, to him will we tell al this
‘on our coming, asthou dost bid, And I would that,
when I return to Ithaca, 1 might as surely find
Odysseus in his house, to tell him how I met with
every kindness at thy hands, ere I departed and
bring with me treasures many and goodly.”
    Even as he spoke a bird flew by on the right,an
‘eagle, bearing in his talons ἃ great, white goose, a
                                                 ὃς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_096>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 162-188
  tame fowl from the yard, and men and women
  followed shouting. But the eagle drew near to them,
 and darted offtothe right in front of the horses;
 and they were glad as they saw it, and the hearts in
 the breasts of all were cheered. And among them
  Peisistratus, son of Nestor, was first tospeak:
      “Consider, Menelaus, fostered of Zeus, leader of
 hosts, whether it was for us two that the god showed
 this sign, or for thyself.”
       o he spoke, and Menelaus, dear to Ares, pondered
 how he might with understanding interpret the sign
aright But long-robed Helen took the word from
 him, and said:
     “Hear me, and I will prophesy as the immortals
putitinto my heart, and as I think it will be brought
to pass. Even as this eagle came from the mountain,
where are his kin, and’ where he was born, and
snatched up the goose that was bred inthe house,
even 80 shall Odysseus return to his home after
many toils and many wanderings, and shall take
vengeance; or even now he is at home, and is
sowing the seeds of evil for all the wooers.”
     ‘Then again wise Telemachus answered her; “So
may Zeus grant, the loud-thundering lord of Here;
then will Leven there ever pray to thee,asto a god.”
     He spoke, and touched the two horses with the
lash, and they sped swiftly toward the plain, coursing
eagerly through the city. So all day long th
shook the yoke they bore about their necks. Ani
the sun set, and all the ways grew dark. And they
came to Pherae, to the house of Diocles, son of
Ortilochus, whom Alpheus begot. There they spent
the night, and before them he set the entertainment
due to strangers,
                                                     87

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_098>>>
HE ODYSSEY, XV. 189-214
 theyAs yoked
        soonasearly Dawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
              the horses, andmounted the inl ταν
 and drove forth from the gateway and the echoing
 portico. Then Peisistratus touched the horses with
 the whip to start them, and nothing loath the pair
 sped onward, and soon thereafter they reached the
 steep citadel of Pylos. ‘Then Telemachus spoke to
 the son of Nestor, saying:
    “Son of Nestor, wilt thou now make me a promise,
and fulfl it,asI bid? Friends from of old we call
ourselves by reason of our fathers’ friendship, and we
are moreover of the same age, and this journey shall
yet more stablish us in oneness of heart, Lead me
not past my ship, O thou fostered of Zeus, but leave
me there, lest that old man keep me in’ his house
against my will, fain to show me kindness, whereas
Tmust needs hasten home,
   So he spoke, and the son of Nestor took counsel
with his heart, how he might duly give the promise
and fulflit. And,   ashepondered, thisseemed tohim
the better course.’ He turned his horses to the swift
ship and the shore of the sea, and took out, and
set in the stern oftheship the beautiful gifts, the
raiment and gold, which Menelaus gave him. “And
he urged on Telemachus, and addressed him with
winged words :
   “Make haste now to go on board, and bid all thy
comrades to do likewise, before I reach home and
bring the old man word. For well [ know this in
mind and heart, so masterful is his spirit he will not
let theego, but will himself come hither tobid thee
to his house; and, I tell thee, he will not go back
without thees for very wroth will he be, desplte of
                                                   89

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_100>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 215-237
   So saying, he drove his horses with beautiful
mane back to the city of the Pylians, and speedily
reached the palace. And Teleniachus called to his
men, and gave command to them, saying:
    “Set all the gear in order, men, in the black ship,
and let us go on board ourselves, that we may speed
on our way.”
   'So he spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed; and at’ once they went on board, and sat
down upon the benches.
    He verily was busied thus, and was praying and
offering sacrifice to Athene by the stem of the ship,
‘when there drew nigh to hin a man from a far land,
one that was fleeing out of Argos because he had
slain a man; and he was a scer. By linenge he
‘was sprung from Melampus, who of old dwelt in
Pylos, mother of flocks, a rich man and one that had
a very wealthy house among the Pylians, but had
afterward come to a land of strangers, fleeing from
his country and from great-hearted Neleus, the lord-
liestofliving men, who for a full year had kept much
wealth from him by force. Now Melampus mean-
while lay bound with bitter bonds in the halls of
Phylacus, suffering grievous pains because of the
daughter of Neleus, and the terrible blindness of
                the goddess, the Erinys, who brings
houses to ruin,? had laid’ upon him. 'Howbeit he
‘escaped his fate, and drove offthe deep-lowing kine
from Phylace to Pylos, and avenged the cruel deed
upon godlike Neleus, and brought the maiden
of Molampus. ‘Thelattor,however, won hisfreedom through
bis skill as « diviner, and drove offthe kine
                                           toPylon. te
thon avenged himmelf on Neleus, and gave Pero to be tbe
                                                    οι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_102>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 138-265
  home to be his own brother's wife. For himself, he
  went to the land of other men, to horse-pasturing
  Argos, for there it was appointed him to dwell, bear-
  ing sway over many Argives. There he wedded a
  wife and built hima high-roofed house, and begot
  Antiphates and Mantius, two stalwart sons. Now
 Antiphates begot great-hearted Otcles, and Otcles
 ‘Amphiaraus, the rouser of the host, whom Zeus, who
 bears the aegis, and Apollo heartily loved with all
 manner of love. Yet he did not reach the threshold
 of old age, but died in Thebe, because of a wornan's
     ts. To him were born sons, Alemaeon and Amphi-
 ochus, And Mantius on his part begot Polypheides
 and Cleitus, Now Cleitus golden-throned Dawn
 snatched away by reason of his beauty, that he
 might dwell with the immortals; but ‘of Poly-
 pheides, high of heart, Apollo made a seer, far the
 best of mortals, after that Amphiaraus was dead.
 He removed to Hyperesia, having waxed wroth with
his father, and there he dwelt and prophesied to
all men.
     His son it was, Theoclymenus by name, who now
came and stood by Telemachus; and he found him
pouring libations and praying by his swift, black
Ship, and he spoke, and addressed him with winged
wor
     “Friend, since I find thee making burnt-offering
in this place,Ibeseech thee by thine offerings and by
the god, aye, and by thine own life and the lives of
thycomrades who follow thee, tell me traly what I
ask, and hide it not. Who art thou among men, and
from whenee? Where is thy city, and where thy
    rents?”
     ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: “Then
                                                    93

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_104>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 266-291
  verily, stranger, will I frankly tell thee all, Of
  Ithaca Tam by birth, and my father is Odysseus,
 as sure as ever? such a one there was; but now
 he has perished by a pitiful fate. Therefore have I
 now taken my comrades and a black ship, and am
 come to seck tidings of my father, that has long
 been gone.”
        ‘Then godlike Theoclymenus answered him: “Even
 so have I, too, fled from my country, for that I slew
 ἃ mm, one of mine own kin, And many brethren
 and kinsmen of his there are in horse-pasturing
 ‘Argos, and mightily do they bear sway over the
 ‘Achaeans. It is to shun death and black fate at
 ‘their hands that 1 flee, for, I ween, it is my lot to
 be a wanderer among men. 'But do thou set me on
 thy ship, since in my flight I have made prayer to
 thee, lest they utterly slay me; for methinks they
 are in pursuit.”
       And wise Telemachus answered him: “Then
 will Tin no wise thrust thee from my shapely ship,
since thou art eager to come. Nay, follow with us,
and in our home shalt thou find entertainment such
as we have.”
      So saying, he took from him his spearof bronze,
      laid ita length on the deck of thecurved ship,
‘and himself went aboard the seafaring ship. ‘Then
he sat down in the stern and made ‘Theoclymenus
sit down beside him; and his men loosed the stern-
cables, And Telemachus called to his men and bade
them lay hold of the tackling, and they quickly
obeyed. The mast of fir they raised and sct in the
hollow socket, and made it fast with fore-stays, and
hauled up the white sail with twisted thongs of ox-
               render ‘if ever” 5Βααἰ is not here conditional;
                                                             95

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_106>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 292-315
 hide. And flashing-eyed Athene sent them a favour-
 able wind, blowing strongly through the sky, that,
 speeding swiftly, the ship might accomplish her way
 over the salt water of the sea. So they fared past
 Crouni and Chaleis, with its beautiful streams.
    Now the sun set and all the ways grew dark. And
 the ship drew near to Pheae, sped by the wind of
 Zeus, and on past goodly Elis, where the Epeans
 hold’ sway. From thence again he steered for the
 sharp isles, pondering whether he should escape
 death or be taken.
    But the two, Odysseus and the goodly swineherd,
 were supping in the hut, and with them supped the
 other men. But when they had put from them the
 desire of food and drink, Odysseus spoke among
 them, making trial of the swineherd to see whether
 he would still entertain him with kindly care and
 bid him remain there at the farmstead, or send
 him forth to the city:
    “Hearken now, Eumaeus, and all ye other men.
 In the morning I am minded to go forth to the city.
 to beg, that I may not be the ruin of thee and of
 thy men. Now then, give me good counsel, and
 fend with me a trusty guide to lead me thither;
 but through the city will I wander by myself per-
 force, inthe hope that one haply wil give me a cup
 of water and a loaf. Aye, and Σ would go to the
 house of godlike Odysseus and bear tidings to the
 wise Penelope, and join the company of the insolent
 ‘wooers, if perchance they may give me a meal, since
                                                mamin

‘mow!uncertain. ‘Tho lin (except fizκαλλρέεθον)
                                            5.)
 Homerie Hymn to Apollo 426.                 sei isfoundinte
                                                           91

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_108>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 316-345
 they have good cheer in abundance. Straightway
might I do good service among them in all that they
 would. For I will tell thee, and do thou give heed
and hearken. By the favour of Hermes, the mes-
senger, who lends grace and glory to all men's work,
in the business of serving no man beside can vie
with me, in piling well a fire, in splitting dry faggots,
ἴα carving and roasting meat, and in pouring wine
       all things in which meaner men serve the
noble.”
    Then deeply moved didst thou speak to him,
swineherd Eumacus: “Ah me, stranger, why has
such a thought come into thy mind? Verily thou
art fain utterly to perish there, if thou wouldest
indeed enter the throng of the wooers, whose wan-
tonnes and violence reach the iron heaven, Not
such as thou are their serving men; nay, they that
serve them are young men, well clad in cloaks and
tunics, and ever are their heads and bright faces
sleek and polished tables are laden with bread,
and meat, and wine, Nay, abide here; there is
none that is vexed by thy presence, not I, nor any
other of the men that are with me.’ But when the
dear son of Odysseus comes, he will himself clothe
thee in a cloak and a tunic as raiment, and will
send thee whithersoever thy heart and spirit bid
thee go.”
   ‘Then the much-enduting,   goodly Odysseusanswered
him: “Would, Eumaens,     thatthou mightest be asdear
to father Zeus as thou art to me, for that thou hast
made me cease from wandering and from grievous
hardships. ‘Than roaming naught else is more evil
for mortals; yet for their cursed belly's sake men
endure evil woes, when wandering and sorrow and
                                                       99

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_110>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 346-374
 pain come upon them, But now, since thou keepest
 me here and biddest me await’ thy master, come,
 tell me τῇ the mother of godlike Odysseus, and of
 the father, whom, when he wentforth,he left behind
 him on the threshold of old age. Are they haply
_still living beneath the rays of the sun? or are they
 ‘now dead and in the house of Hades?”
    Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
 him: “Then verily, stranger, will I frankly tell thee.
 Laertes still lives, but ever prays to Zeus that his
 life may-waste away from his linbs within bis halls,
 For wondrously does he grieve for his son that is
     ne, and for the wise lady, his wedded wife, whose
   jeath troubled him most of all, and brought him. to
 untimely old age. But she died of grief for her
 glorious son by a miserable death, as I would that no
 man may die who dwells here as my friend and does,
 me kindness. So long as she lived, though it was in
 sorrow, it was ever apleasure to me to ask and en-
 guize after her, for she herself had brought me up
 with long-robed Ctimene, her noble daughter, whom
 she bore as her youngest child, With her was 1
 broughtup,and the mother honoured me little less
 than her own children. But when we both reached
 the longed-for prime of youth they sent her to Same
 to wed, and got themselves countless bridal gifts;
 butasfor me, my lady clad me in a cloak and tunic,
 right goodly raiment, and gave me sandals for my
 feet and sent me forth to the field; but in her heart
 she loved me the more. But now I lack all this,
 ‘though for my own part the blessed gods make to
   xrosper the work to which I give heed. ‘Therefrom
 Rave I esten and drunk, and given to reverend
 strangers. But from my mistress may hear naught
                                                    ror

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_112>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 375-402
 pleasant, whether word or deed, for a plague has
 fallen upon the house, even overweening men. Yet
 greatly do servants long to speak before their mis-
 tress, and learn of all, and to eat and drink, and
 thereafter to carry off somewhat also to the fields,
 such things asever make the heart of ἃ servant to
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Lo now, surely when thou wast but a child,
swineherd Bumaeus, thou didst wander far from thy
 country and thy parents. But come now, tell me
 this, and declare it truly. Was a broad-wayed city
of men sacked, wherein thy father and honoured
mother dwelt? Οἵ, when thou wast alone with thy
sheep or cattle, did foemen take thee in their ships
and bear thee for sale to the house of this thy
master, who paid for thee a goodly price?”
    ‘Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
him: “Stranger, since thou dost ask and question
‘me of this, hearken now in silence, and take thy joy,
and drink thy wine,  asthou sittest here. These nights
  τὸ wondrous long. ‘There is time for sleep, and there
 is time to take joy in hearing tales; thou necdest
not lay thee down till it be time; there is weariness
even in too much sleep. As for the rest, if any man’s
heart and spirit bid him, let him go forth and sleep,
and at daybreak let him eat, and follow our master’s
swine, But we two will drink and feast in the hut,
and will take delight each in the other's grievous
‘woes, as we recall them to mind. For in after time
ἃ man finds joy even in woes, whosoever has suffered
‘much, and wandered much. But this will I tell thee,
of which thou dost ask and enquire,
                                                   103

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_114>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 403-431
      “There is an isle called Syria, if haply thou hast
  heard thereof, above Ortygia, where are the turning-
  places  of the’ sun, Itisnot so very thickly settled,
  but it is a good land, rich in herds, rich in flocks,
  fall of wine, abounding in wheat.’ Famine never
  comes into the land, nor does any hateful sickness
  besides fall on wretched mortals; but when the tribes
  ‘of men grow old throughout the city, Apollo, of the
  silver bow, comes with Artemis, and assails them
  with his gentle shafts, and slays them. In that
  isle are two cities, and all the land is divided
  between them, and over both ruled as king my
  father, Cesus, on of Ormenus,« man like to the
  immortals.
     “Thither eame Phoenicians, men famed for their
  ships, greedy knaves, bringing countless trinkets in
  their black ship. Now there was in my father's house
  ἃ Phoenician woman, comely and tall, and skilled in
  glorious handiwork, ’Her the wily Phoenicians be-
  guiled. First, as she was washing clothes, one of
  ‘them lay with her in love by the hollow ship; for
  this beguiles the minds of women, even though one
  beupright. Then he asked her who she was, and
  whence she came, and she straightway shewed him
  the high-roofed home of my father, and said τ
     “Out of Sidon, rich in bronze, I declare that I
  come, and I am the daughter of Arybas, to whom
  ‘wealth flowed in streams. But Taphian pirates seized
  me, as I was coming from the fields, and brought me
  hither, and gold me tothe house of yonder man, and
  he paid for me ἃ           rice.”
     “PThon the ouekwh ed iain with her in seret
"answered her: ‘Wouldest thou then return again with
  us to thy home, that thou mayest see the high-roofed
                                                    105

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_116>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 432-460
 house of thy father and mother, and see them too?
 For of a truth they yet live, and are accounted rich.’
     ‘Then the woman answered him, and sud: This
 may well be, if you sailors will pledge yourselves by
 fn oath, that youwil bring me aafelyhome’               σου"
     So she spoke, and they all gave an oath thereto,
 as she bade them. But when they had sworn and
 made an end of the oath, the woman again spoke
 among them, and made answer:
    «Be silent now, and let no one of your company
 speak to me, if he ‘meets me in the street or hapl
 at the well, Test some one go to the palace and tell
 the old king, and he wax suspicious and bind me with
grievous bonds, and devise death for you. Nay, keep
my words inmind, and speed the barterofyour wares.
 But, when your ship is laden with goods, let      αmes-
sage come quickly to me at the palace; for I will
also bring whatever gold comes under my hand. Aye,
and I would gladly give another thing for my passage,
‘There is a child of my noble? master, whose nurse I
am in the palace, such a cunning child, who ever
runs abroad with’ me. Him would I bring on board,
and he would fetch you a vast price, wherever you
might take him for sile among men of strange
speech.”
   So saying, she departed to the fair palace. And
they remained there in our land a full year, and got
by trade much substance in their hollow ship. But
when their hollow ship was laden for their return,
then they sent a messenger to bear tidings to the
woman. There came a man, well versed in guile,
to my father's house with a necklace of gold, and
with amber beads was it strang between, ‘This
    4 Or, omanother interpretation of dersimply “my.”
                                                      107

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_118>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 461-489
 the maidens in the hall and my honoured mother
 were handling, and were gazing on it, and were
 offering him their price; but he nodded to the
 ‘woman in silence. Then verily when he had nodded
 to her, he went his way to the hollow ship, but she
 took me by the hand, and led me forth from the
 hhouse. Now in the fore-hall of the palace she found
the cups and tables of the banqueters, who waited
 upon my father. ‘They had gone forth to the council
and the people's place of debate, but she quickly hid
three goblets in her bosom, and bore them away’; and
I followed in my heedlessness. Then the sun set, and
all the ways grew dark. And we made haste and
came to the goodly harbour, where was the swift ship
of the Phoenicians. Then’ they embarked, putting
Doth of us on board as well, and sailed over the
watery ways, and Zeus sent them a favourable wind.
Forsixdays we sailed, night and day alike; but when
Zeus, son of Cronos, brought upon us the seventh
day, then Artemis, the archer, smote the woman, and
she fell with a thud into the hold, as sea’ bird
plunges. Her they cast forth to be x prey to seals
End fishes, but T'was left, my heart sore stricken.
Now the wind, as it bore them, and the wave,
Drought them to Ithaca, where Laertes bought me
with his wealth. ‘Thus it was that my eyes beheld
‘this land.”
    ‘To him then Zeus-born Odysseus made answer,
and said: “Eumaeus, of a truth thou hast deeply
stirred the heart in my breast in telling all this tale
of the sorrow thou hast bore at heart, Yet verily.
in thy case Zeus has given good side by side with
the evil, since after all thy toil thou hast come to
the house of a kindly man, who gives thee food and
                                                    109

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_120>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 490-518
 drink, and that with kindness, and thou livest well;
 while as for me, it is while wandering through the
 many cities of men that I am come hither.”
    Thus they spoke to one another, and then lay
 down to sleep, for no long time, but for a little; for
 soon eame fair-throned Dawn. "But the comrades of
 Telemachus, drawing near the shore, furled the sail,
 and took down the mast quickly, and rowed the ship
 to her anchorage with their oars. ‘Then they cast out
 the mooring-stones and made fast the stern cables,
 and themselves went forth upon the shore of the sea,
and made ready their meal and mixed the flaming
 wine. But when they had put from them the desire
of food and drink, among them wise 'eleinachus was
the first to speak, saying:
    “Do you now row the black ship to the city, but
 I will visit the fields and the herdsmen, and at even-
ing will come to the city when I hdve looked ofer
my lands. And in the morning’ will set before you,
as wages for your journey, a good feastofflesh’and
sweet wine.”
    Then godlike ‘Theoclymenus answered him:
«Whither shall I go, dear child? To whose house
shall 1 come of those who rule in rocky Ithaca? Or
shall I go straight to thy mother’s house and thine?””
   Then wise ‘Telemachus answered him: “ Were
things otherwise, I should bid thee go even to our
house, for there is in no wise lack of entertainment
for strangers, but it would be worse for thyself, since
I shall be away, and my mother will not see thee.
For she does not often appear before the wooers in
the house, but apart from them weaves at her loom
in an upper chamber. But 1 will tell thee of another
man to whom thou mayest go, Eurymeehus, glorious
                                                   arr

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_122>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 519-546
 son of wise Polybus, whom now the men of Ithaca
 ook upon as on a god. For he is by far the bestman,
 and is most eagertomarry my mother and to hare
 the honour of Odysseus.        Nevertheless Olympian
 Zeus, who dwells in the sky, knows this, whether
 or not before marriage he will fulfil for them the
 evil day.”
    Even as he spoke ἃ bird flew forth upon the right,
 a hawk; the swift messenger of Apollo. In his talons
 he held   adove, and was plucking her and shedding
 the feathers down on the ground midway between.
 the ship and Telemachus himself, Then Theoely-
 menus called him apart from his companions, and
 clasped his hand, and spoke, and addressed him’:
    “Telemachus, surely not without a god's warrant
 bas this bird flown forth upon our right, for I knew,
as I looked upon him, that he was a bird of omen.
‘Than yours is no other house in the land of Ithaca
more kingly;nay, ye are ever supreme.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered him again: “Ah,
stranger, 1 would that this word of thine might be
fulfilled.’ Then shouldest thou straightway know of
Kindness and many a gift from me, 50 that one that
met thee would call thee blessed.”
   ‘Therewith he spoke to Peiracus, his trusty com-
rade: “Peiraeus,   sonofClytins, itis thou thatinother
matters art wont to hearken to me above all my
comrades, who went with me to Pylos; so now do
thou, I pray thee, take this stranger and give him
kindly welcome in thy house, and show him honour
until T come.”
   Then Peiraeus, the famous spearman, answered
him: “Telemachts, though thou shouldest stay here
Jong, I will entertain him, and he shall have no lack
of what is due to strangers.”                      ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_124>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XV. 547-557
       So saying, he went on board the ship, and bade
    his comrades themselves to embark and to loose the
    stern cables. So they went on board straightway,
    and sat down upon the benches. But Telemachus
    bound beneath his fect his fair sandals, and took his,
    mighty spear, tipped with sharp bronze, from the
    deck of the ship, Then the men loosed the ster
    cables, and thrusting off sailed to the city, as Tele-
    machus bade, the dear son of divine Odysseus. But
    his feet bore him swiftly on, as he strode forward,
    until he reached the farmistead where were his count
Ι   less swine, among whom slept the worthy swineherd
    with ἃ heart loyal to his masters.


᾿
|

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_126>>>
BOOK       XVI

   Meaxwax the two in the hut, Odysseus and the
‘goodly swincherd, had kindled afire, andwere making
ready their breakfast at dawn, and had sent forth
the herdsmen with the droves of swine; but around
‘Telemachus the baying hounds fawned, and barked
not as he drew near. And goodly Odysseus noted
the fawning of the hounds, and the sound of foot-
steps fell upon his ears; and straightway he spoke
to Bumaeus winged words
   “Bumaeus, surely some comrade of thine will be
coming, oFat least some one thou knowest, for the
hounds’ do not bark, but fawn about him, and I
hear the sound of footsteps.”
   Not yet was the word fully uttered, when his own,
dear son stood in the doorway. In amazement αἱ
sprang the swineherd, and from his hands the vessels,
fell with which he was busied as he mixed the flaming
wine. And he went to meet his lord, and kissed his,
hhead and both his beautiful eyes and his two hands,
and a big tear fell from him, Απᾶ as a loving father
greets his own dear son, who comes in the tenth
year from a distant Iand—his only son and well-
beloved, for whose sake he has borne much sorrow-
even so did the goodly swineherd then clasp in his
arms godlike Telemachus, and kiss him all over
as one escaped from death; and with wailing he
addressed him with winged words :
                                                  m7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_128>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 23-49
   “Thou art come, Telemachus, sweet light of my
eyes. I thought I should never see thee more after
thou hadst gone in thy ship to Pylos. But come,
enter in, dear child, that I may delight my heart
with looking at thee here in my house, who art
newly come from other lands. For thou dost not
often visit the farm and the herdsmen, but abidest
in the town; 80, I ween, has it seemed good to thy
heart, to look upon the destructive throng of the
vwooers.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: ‘So shall
it be, father. It is for thy sake that Iam come
hither, to see thee with my eyes, and to hear thee
tell whether my mother still abides in the halls, or
whether by now some other man has wedded her,
and the couch of Odysseus lies haply in want of
bedding, covered with foul spider-webs.”
   ‘Then the swineherd, a leader of men, answered
his “Aye, verily, she abides with steadfast heart
    thy halls, and ever sorrowfully for her the nights
and the days wane as she weeps.”
   So saying, he took from him the spear of bronze,
‘and Telemachus went in and passed over the stone
threshold. As he drew near, his father, Odysseus,
rose from his seat and gave him place, but Telemachus
on his part checked him, and said:
   ‘Be seated, stranger, and we shall find aseat else-
where in our farmstead. There is a man here who
will set us one.
   So he spoke, and Odysseus went back and sat
down again, and for Telemachus the swincherd
strewed green brushwood beneath anda fleece above
it, and there the dear son of Odysseus sat down,
Then the swineherd set before them platters of roast
                                                   119

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_130>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 50-77
    meats, which they had left at their meal the day
    before, and quickly heaped up bread in baskets, and
    mixed in a bow! of ivy wood honey-sweet wine, and
    himself sat down over against divine Odysseus. So
    they put forth their hands to the good cheer lying
    ready before them. But when they had put from
    them the desire of food and drink, Telemachus spoke
    to the        goodly swincherd, and said’:
       “Father, from whence did this stranger come to
    thee? How did sailors bring him to Ithaca? Who
    did they declare themselves to be? For nowise,
|   methinks, did he come hither on foot.”
       ‘To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
    answer, and say: “Then verily, my child, I will tell
    thee all the truth, From broad Crete he declares,
    that hehas birth, and he saysthat he has wandered
    roaming through many cities of mortals; so has a
    god spun for him this lot. But now he has run
    ‘away from a ship of the Thesprotians and come to
    my farmstead, and I shall put him in thy hands,
    Do what thou wilt He declares himself thy
    ‘suppliant.”
       ‘Then again wise Telemachus answered him:
    “Bumaeus, verily this word which thou hast uttered
    stings me tothe heart. For how am I to welcome
    this stranger in my house? Iam myself but young,
    nor have I yet trust in my might to defend me
    against a man, when one waxes wroth without ἃ
    cause. And as for my mother, the heart in her breast
    wavers this way and that, whether to abide here
    with me and keep the house, respecting the bed of
    her husband and the voice of the people, or to go
    now with him whosoever is best of the Achaeans that
    ‘woo her in the halls, and offers the most gifts of
                                                     rar

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_132>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 78-106
 wooing. But verily, as regards this stranger, now
that he has come tothy house, I will clothe him in a
 cloak and tunic, fair raiment, and will give him a
 two-edged sword, and sandals for his feet, and send
himwhithersoever his heart       and spiritbid himgo. Or,
if thou wilt, do thou keep him here atthe farmstead,
‘and care for him, and raiment will I send hither and
all his food to eat, that he be not the rain of thee
and of thymen, ‘But thither will T not suffer him
 to go,tojoin the company of the wooers, for they are
over-full of wanton insolenee, lest they mock him,
‘and dread grief come upon me. And to achieve
 aught is hard for one man among many, how mighty
 soever he be, for verily they are far stronger.”
    Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
 swered him :“Friend, since surely it is right for me
 to make answer—verily ye rend my heart, as I hear
 your words, such wantonness you say the wooers
 evise in the halls in despite of thee, so goodly ἃ
‘man, Tell me, art thou willingly thus oppressed ?Or
do the people throughout the land hate thee, follow-
ing the voice of agod? Or hast thou cause to blame
thy brothers, in whose fighting a man trusts even if a
great strife arise. Would that with my present
temper I were as young as thou, either the son of
blameless Odysseus, or Odysseus himself; straight
 way then might some stranger cut my head from of
my neck, if Idid not prove myself the bane of them
Ail  witen I had come to the halls of Odysseus, son of
Laertes. But if they should overwhelm me by their
numbers, aloneasIwas, far rather would I die, slain in
  2Line 10) (ἔλθοι ἀλητεύων: ἔτι γὰρ καὶ ἐχπίον αἶσα, “might
‘come from his wanderings; for there isstilroom for hope")
‘has been omitted in translating as ruinous tothe sense,
                                                         123

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_134>>>
;
                THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 107-135
     my own halls,thanbehold continually these shameful
     deeds, strangers mishandled, and men dragging the
     handmaidens in shameful fashion through the fair
     halls, and wine drawn to waste, and men devouring
    my bread all heedlessly, without limit, with no end
     to the business.”
        ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: Then
     verily, stranger, I will frankly tell thee all, Neither
    do the people at large bear me any grudge or
    hatred, nor have I cause to blame brothers, in whose
    fighting © man trusts, even if a great strife arise.
    For in this wise has the son of Cronos made our
    house torun in but     asingle line. As his onlyson did
    Arceisius beget Laertes, as his only son again did his
    father beget Odysseus, and Odysseus begot me as
    his only son, and left me in his halls, and had no
    joy of me. Therefore itis that foes past counting
    fre now in the house; for all the princes who hol
    sway over the islands—Dolichium, and Same, and
    ‘wooded Zacynthus—and those who lordit over rocky
    Ithaca, all these woo my mother and lay waste my
    house. And she neither refuses the hateful marriage,
    nor is she able to make an end; but they with
    feasting consume my substance, and will ere long
    bring me, too, to ruin. Yet these things verily lie
    on the knees of the gods. But, father, do thou go
    with speed, and tell constant Penelope that she has
    me safe, and I am come from Pylos, But I will
    abide here, and do thou come back ‘hither, when
    thou hast told thy tale to her alone; but of the rest
    of the Achaeans let no one learn it, for many there
    are who contrive evil against me.”
       To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
                                                        τς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_136>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 136-162
answer, and say: “I see, I give heed; this thou bid-
dest one with understanding. But come now, tell
me this, and declare it truly; whether I shall go on
the self-same way with tidings to Laertes also,
wretched man, who for a time, though grieving
sorely for Odysseus, was still wont to oversee the
fields, andwould eat and drink with the slaves in the



    Then wise Telemachus answered him: "Tis the
sadder ;but none the less we will let him be, despite
our δοτέον ; for iin any wise all things might be had
bymortals for the wishing, we should choose frst of
ail the day of my father's return, No, do thou come
back, when thou hast given thy message, and wander
not over the fields in search of Laertes; but bid my
mother with all speed send forth her handmaid,
the housewife, secretly, for she might bear word to
the old man.”
    With this he roused the swineherd, and he took
his sandals in his hends and bound them beneath his
feet: and went forth to the city. Nor was Athene
unaware that the swineherd Eumaeus was gone
from the farmstead, but she drew near in the likeness
ofawoman, comely and tall,and skilled in glorious
handiwork, "And she stood over against thedoor of
the hut, shewing herself  toOdysseus, but ‘felemachus
did not see her before him, oF notice her; for in no
wise do the gods appear in manifest presence to all.
But Odysseas saw her, and the hounds, and they
                                                  137

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_138>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 163-189
 barked not, but with whining slunk in fear to the
 further side of the farmstead. ‘Then she made a sign
 with her brows, and goodly Odysseus perceived it,
 and went forth from the hall,past the great wall of
 the court, and stood before her, and Athene spoke
 to him, saying:
    «Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, even now do thou reveal thy word to
 thy son, and ‘hide it not, that when you two have
 planned death and fute for the wooers, you may go
 to the famous city. Nor will I myself be long away
 from you, for I am eager for the battle.”
    With this, Athene touched him with her golden
wand. A well-washed cloak and a tunie she first of
all cast about his breast, and she inereased his stature
and his youthful bloom. Gnce more he grew dark
of colour, and his cheeks filled out, and dark grew
the beard about his chin. Then, when she had
‘wrought thus, she departed, but Odysseus went into
the hut. And his dear sonmarvelled,     and,seized with
fear, tumed his eyes aside, lest it, should be a god.
And he spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
   Of other sort.thou seemest to me now, stranger,
than awhile ego, and other are the garments thou
hast on, and thy colour is no more the same. Verily
thou art a god, one of those who hold broad heaven.
Nay then, be gracious, that we may offer to thee ac-
ceptable sacrifices and golden gifts, finely wrought
but do thou spare us.”
   ‘Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
swered him: Be sure I am no god; why dost thou
liken me to the immortals? Nay, I am thy father,
for whose sake thou dost with groaning endure many
griefs, and submittest to the violence of men.”
                                                     129

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_140>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 190-219
     So saying, he kissed his son, and from his cheeks
  let fall a tear to earth, but before he ever stead-
  fastly held them back. Howbeit Telemachus—for
  he did not yet believe that it,was his father—agai
 answered, and spoke to him, saying:
     “Thou verily art not my father Odysseus, but
 some god beguiles me, that I may weep and groan
 yet more. For nowise could ἃ mortal man contrive
 this by his own wit, unless a god were himself to
 come to him, and easily by his will make him young
 or old. For verily but now thou wast an old man
 and meanly clad, whereas now thou art like the gods,
 who hold broad heaven.”
     ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: Telemachus, it beseems thee not to wonder
 ‘overmuch that thy father is in the house, or to be
 amazed. For thou mayest be sure no other Odysseus
 will ever come hither; but I here, I, even such as
 thou seest me, after sufferings and many wanderings,
‘am comein the twentieth yeartomy native land. But
 this, thou mastknow, is the work of Athene, driver of
 the ‘spoil, who makes me such as she will—for she
has the power—now like a beggar, and now again like
   young man, and one wearing fait raiment about his
body. Easyitisfor the gods, who hold broad heaven,
both to glorify ἃ mortal man and to abase him.”
    So saying, he sat down, and Telemachus, flinging
his arms about his noble father, wept and shed tears,
and in the hearts of both arose a longing for lamen-
tation, And they wailed aloud more vehemently than.
birds, sea-engles, or vultures with crooked talons,
whose young the country-folk have taken from their
nest before they were fledged;even so piteously did
they let tears fall from beneath their brows, And
                                                  131

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_142>>>
THE QDYSSEY, XVI. 220-247
 now would the light of the sun have gone down upon
 their weeping, had not Telemachus spoken to his
  father suddenly :
    “In what manner of ship, dear father, have sailors
 now brought thee hithertoIthaca? Who did they
 declare themselves to be? For nowise, methinks,
 didst thon come hi
    ‘And the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus answered
him: “Then verily, my child, I will tell thee all the
truth. The Phacacians brought me, men famed for
their ships, who send other men too on their way,
whosoever comes to them. And they brought me as
 I slept in a swift ship over the sea, and set me down
in Ithaca, and gave me glorious gifts, stores of bronze
and gold and woven raiment. ‘These treasures, by
the favour of the gods, are lying in caves. And
now I am come hither at the bidding of Athene,
that we may take counsel about the slaying of our
foes, Come now, count me the wooers, and tell their
tale; that I may know how many they are and what
‘manner of men, and that I may ponder in my noble
heart and decide whether we two shall be able to
maintain our cause against them alone without others,
or whether we shall also seek out others.”
    Then wise Telémachus answered him: “Father,
of a truth I have ever heard of thy great fame, that
thou wast a warrior in strength of hand and in wise
counsel, but this'thou sayest is too great; amazement
holds me. It could not be that two men should fight
‘against many men and mighty. For of the wooers
there are not ten alone, or twice ten, but full many
more, Hereaswe are shalt thou straightway learn
their number. From Dulichium there are two and
                                                   133

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_144>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 248-276
fifty chosen youths, and six serving men attend them;
from Same came four and twenty inenj from Zacyn-
thus there are twenty youths of the Achaeans; and
from Ithaca itself twelve men, all of them the noblest,
and with them is Medon, the herald, and the divine
minstrel, and two squires skilled in carving meats.
If we shall meet all these within the halls, bitter,I
            vith bane will be thy coming to avenge
            Nay, do thou conser, ἐξ thou cant, δες


 heed and henrken to my words, and consider whether
for us two Athene, with father Zeus, will be enough,
or whether 1 shall bethink me of some other
helper.”
   Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Good,
thou mayest be sure, are these two helpers whom
thou dost mention, though high in the clonds do
they abide, and they rule over all men alike and
the immortal gods.
  Thenthemuch-enduring,     goodly Odysseusanswered:
“Not long of a surety will those two hold aloof from
the mighty fray, when between the wooers and us in
my halls the might of Ares is put to the test. But
for the present, do thou go at daybreak to thy house
and join the company of the haughty wooers. As
for me, the swineherd will lead me later on to the
city in the likeness of awoeful and aged beggar.
And if they. shall put despite on me in the house,
let the heart in thy breast endure while I am evil
entreated, even if they drag me by the feet through
the house to the door, or hurl at me snd smite me;
                                                 135

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_146>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 277-301
 still do thou endure to behold it. Thou shalt indeed
 Did them cease their folly, seeking to dissuade them
 with gentle words; yet in no wise will they hearken
 to thee, for verily their day ofdoom is at hand. And
 another thing will [ tell thee, and do thou lay it to
 heart. When Athene, rich in counsel, shall put ft in
 my mind, I wil nod to thee with my head; and do
 thou thereupon, when thou notest it, take all the
 ‘weapons of war that lie in thy halls, and lay them
 away one and all in the seeret place of the lofty
 store-room. And as for the wooers, when they miss
 the ams and question thee, do thou beguile them
swith gentle words, saying:
    «Out of the smoke have I Jaid them,} since the
are no longer like those which of old Odysseus 1
behind him when he went forth to Troy, but are all
efouled so farasthe breath of the fire has reached
them. And furthermore this greater fear has the
son of Cronos put in my heart, lest haply, when
heated with wine, you may set a quarrel afoot among
you and wound one another, and so bring shame on
Your feast and on your wooing. For of itself does
the iron draw a man to it”
   “But for us two alone do thou leave behind two
swords and two spears, and two ox-hide shields for
us tograsp, that we may rush upon them and seize
them while as for the wooers, Pallas Athene and
Zeus, the counsellor, will beguile them. And an-
other thing will T tell thee, and do thou lay it to
heart. If in truth thou art my son and of our blood,
then ‘let no one hear that Odysseus is at home;
κι᾽36weapons
     The Homerichanginghou δ adthomno patarally
                                      chimney, andthe
                                                 became wallsgry with
toot romthefre which buroed            inthocentre οἱ th hallwith
                                                                137

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_148>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 302-332
  neither Jet Laertes know it, nor the swincherd, nor
 any of the household, nor Penelope herself; but by
 ourselves thou and ἢ will learn the temper of the
 women. Aye, and we will likewise make trial of
 many aone of the serving men, and see where           any
 of them honours us two and fears us at heart, and
 who recks not of us and scorns thee, ἃ man s0
     oly.”
 "ten his glorious soa answered him, and said:
 «Father, my spirit, methinks, thou shalt verily eome
 to know hereatter, for no slackness of will possesses
 me. ButIthinknot that thisplan willbe a gain to us
 both, andso Ibid thee takethought. Longtime shalt
 thou vainly go about, making trial of each man as
 thou visitest the farms, while in thy halls those others
 at their ease are wasting thy substance in insolent
 wise, and there ig no sparing. Yet verily, as for the
 women, I do bid thee learn who among them dis
 honour thee, and who are guiltless, But of the men
in the farmsteads T would not that we should make
trial, but that we should deal therewith hereafter, it
in very trath thou knowest some sign from Zeus,
who bears the aegis.”
    Thus they spoke to one another, but meanwhile
into Ithaca put the well-built ship that brought Tele-
‘machus and all his comrades from Pylos; and they,
when they had come into the deep harbour, drew
the black ship up on the shore, while proud 6
bore forth their armour and straightway earried the
deauteous gifts to the house of Clytius. But they
sentaherald forth to the house of Odysseus to bear
word to wise Penelope that Telemachus was at the
farm, and had bidden the ship to sail on to the eity,
lest the noble queen might grow anxious and let
                                                      139

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_150>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 333-358
 round tears fall. So the two met, the herald and
 the goodly swineherd, on the selfsame errand, to
 bear tidings to the Indy. And when they reached
 the palace of the godlike king, the herald spoke out
 in the midst of the handmaids, and said: “Even now,
 queen, thy son has come back from Pylos.””
    Bat the swincherd came close to Penelope and
 told her all that her dear son had bidden him say.
 And when he had fully told all that had been com-
 manded him, he went his way to the swine and left
‘the courtyard and the hall.
    But the wooers were dismayed and downenst in
spirit, and forth they went from the hall past the
    eat wall of the court, and there before the gates
they sat down, ‘Then among them Eurymachus, son
of Polybus, was the first to speak:
    “My friends, verily a great deed has been inso-
Jently brought’ to pass byTelemacins, even, this
journey, and we deemed that he would never see it
accomplished, But come, let us launch     ablack ship,
the best we have, and let us get together seamen as
rowers that they may straightway bear tidings to
those others speedily to return home.”
    Not yet was the word fully uttered when Amphi-
nomus, turing in his place, saw ship in the deep
harbour and men furling the sail, and with oars in
their hands. ‘Then, breaking into'a merry laugh, he
spoke among his comrades:
   “Let us not be sending a message any more, for
here they are at home. Fither some god told them
of this, or they themselves caught sight of the ship
of Telemachus as she sailed by, but could not eatch
her.”
   ‘So he spoke, and they rose up and went to the
                                                  τῶν

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_152>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 359-386
  shore of the sea. Swiftly the men drew up the
  black ship on the shore, and proud squires bore
  forth their armour. Themselves meanwhile went
  all together to the place of assembly, and none other
  would they suffer to sit with them, either of the
  young men or the old. Then among them spoke
  ‘Antinous, son of Bupeithes:
     “Lo, now, see how the gods have delivered this
  man from destruction. Day by day watehtien sat
  upon the windy heights, watch ever following watch,
  and at set of gun we never spent a night upon the
 shore, but sailing over the deep in our swift ship we
  waited for the bright Dawn, lying in wait for Tele-
 machus, that we might take him and slay the man
 himself; howbeit meanwhile some god has brought
 him home. But, on our part,let us here devise for him
 ‘a woeful death, evenfor Telemachus, and let him not
 escape from out our hands, for I deem that while
 he lives this work of ours will not prosper. For he
is himself shrewd in counsel and in wisdom, and the
 people nowise show us favour any more. Nay, come,
 before he gathers the Achaeans to the place of as-
sembly—for methinks he will in no wise be slow to
act, but will be full of wrath, and rising up will d
clare among them all how that we contrived against
him utter destruction, but did not catch him; and
they will not praise us when they hear of our evil
deeds, Beware, then, lest they work us some harm
and drive us out from our country, and we come to
the land of strangers. Nay, let us act first, and seize
hhim in the field far from the city, or on the road
‘and his substance let us ourselves keep, and his
wealth, dividing them fairly among us; though the
house we would give to his mother to possess, and to
                                                   143

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_154>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 387-414
 him who weds her. ᾿Howbeit if this plan does not
 please you, but you choose rather that he should live
 and keep all the wealth of his fathers, let us not
 continue to devour his store of pleasant things as we
 gather together here, but let each man from his own
 ball woo her with his gifts and seek to win her; and
she then would wed him who offers most, and. who
‘comes as her fated lord.
    80 he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence.
‘Then Amphinomus addressed their assembly, and
spoke among them. He was the glorious son of the
Prince Nisus, son of Aretias, and he led the wooers
who came from Dulichium, rich in whent and in
    ass, and above all the others he pleased Penel
irith bus words, for he bad an understanding heer
He it was who with good intent addressed their
assembly, and spoke among them:
    “Friends, I surely would not choose to kill Tele~
machus;a dread thing is it to slay one of royal
stock. Nay, let us first seek to lear the will of the
gods. If the oracles of great Zeus approve, I will
myself slay him, and bid all the others do so; but
if the gods turn us from the act, I bid you desist.”
    Thus spoke Amphinomus, and his word was pleas-
ing to them. So they arose straightway and went to
the house of Odysseus, and entering in, sat down on
the polished seats.
    Then the wise Penelope took other counsel, to
show herself to the wooers, overweening in their in-
solence. Forshe had learned of the threatened death
of her son in her halls, for the herald Medon told
her, who had heard their counsel. So she went her
way toward the hall with her handmaids. But when
the fair lady reached the wooers, she stood by the
                                                   145

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_156>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 415-443
 doorpost of the well-built hall, holding before her
 face  hershining veil; and she rebuked Antinous, and
 spoke, and addressed him:
    “Antinous, full of insolence, deviser of evil! and
 yet it is thou, men say, that dost excel among all
of thy years in the land of Ithaca in counsel and
in speech. But thou, it seems, art not such ἃ man,
 Madman! why dost thou devise death and fate for
‘Telemachus, and carest not for suppliants, for whom
Zeus is witness. "Tis an impious thing to plot evil
fone against another. Dost thou not know of the
time when thy futher came to this house a fagi-
tive in terror of the people? For of a truth the
rere   greatly wroth with him beeause he had joined
‘Taphian pirates and harried the Thesprotians, who
were in league with us. Him, then, they were minded
to slay, and take from him his life by violence, and
utterly to devour his great and pleasant livelihood ;
but Odysseus held them back, and stayed them
despite their eagerness. His house it is that thou
consumest: now without atonement, and wooest his
wife, and seckest to slay his son, and on me thou
Dringest   greatdistress. Ney, forbear, I charge thee,
and bid the rest forbear.”
   Then Burymachus, son of Polybus, answered her:
“Daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, be of good
cheer, and let not these things distress thy heart.
‘That man lives not, nor shall live, nor shall ever be
born, who shall lay hands upon thy son Telemachus
while I live and behold the light upon the earth. For
thus willT speak out to thee, and verily it shall be
broughttopass. Quickly shall that man’s black blood
flow forth about my spear; for of a truth me, too,
did Odysseus the sacker of cities often set upon his
                                                   147

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_158>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 444-471
 knees, and put roast meat in my hands, and hold to
 my lips red wine. Therefore Telemachus is far the
 ‘earest of all men to me, and I bid him have no fear
 of death, at least from ‘the wooers; but from the
 gods can no man avoid it.”
    Thus he spoke to cheer her, but against that son
 he was himself plotting death. So she went up
 to her bright upper chamber and then bewailed
 Odysseus, her dear husband, until fashing-eyed
 Athene cast sweet sleep upon’ her eyelids.
    Bat at evening the goodly swineherd eame back
toOdysseus and hisson, and they were busily making
 ready their supper, and had slain a boar of a year old.
 ‘Then Athene came close to Odysseus, son of Lnertes,
 and smote him with her wand, and again made him
 an old man; and mean raiment, she put about his
 body, lest the swincherd might look upon him and
know him, and might go to bear tidings      toconstant
 Penelope, and not hold the secret fast in his heart.
    ‘Now Telemachus spoke first to the swincherd, and
said: “Thou hast come, goodly Eumaeus. What news
is there in the city? Have the proud wooers by this
time come home from their ambush, or are they still
watching for me where they were, to take me on my
homeward way?
    To hima, then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou make
answer and say’: “I was not minded to go about the
city, asking and enquiting of this; my heart bade
me with all speed to come back hither when I had
given my message. But there joined me a swift
messenger from thy companions, a herald, who was
the first to tell the news to thy mother. "And this
farther thing I know, for I saw it with my eyes. I
‘was now above the city, as I went on my way, where
                                                    149

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_160>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVI. 472-481
  the hill of Hermes is, when I saw a swift ship patting
  into our harbour, and there were many men in her,
  ‘and she was laden with shields and double-pointed
  spears. And I thought it was they, but I have no
  knowledge.”
     So he spoke, and the strong and mighty Telema-
  chus smiled and with his eyes he glameed at his
ὁ father, but shunned the swineherd’s eye.
     ‘And when they had ceased from their labour and
  had made ready the meal, they fell to feasting, nor
  did their hearts lack aught of the equal feast. But
  when they had pat from them the desire of food
  and drink, they bethought them of rest, and tool
  the gift of sleep.




                                                    ΠῚ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_162>>>
BOOK      XVII
  As soon asearlyDawn appeared, the rosy-fingered,
‘Telemachus, the dear ton of divine Odysseus, Gound
beneath his feet his fair sandals and took his mighty
spear, that fitted his grasp, bi      to the city; and
he spoke to his swinehierd, saying:
   ‘Father, I verily am going to the city, that my
mother may see me, for, methinks, she will not cease
from woeful wailing and tearful’ lamentation until
she sees my very self. But    tothee I give this charge.
Lead this wretched stranger to the city, that there
he may beg his food, and whoso will shall give him a
loaf and acap of water. For my part, I can in no
wise burden myself with all men, seeing that I have
grief at heart. But if the stranger is sore angered
at this, it will be the worse for him. I verily love to
speak the truth.”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
        “Friend, be sure I am not myself fain to be
Fett here. Fora beggar itis better to beg hisfood
in the town than in the fields, and whoso will shal
give it_me, For I am no more of anageto remai
at the farmstead, so as to obey im all things the com-
mand of an overseer. Nay, go thy way; this man
that thou biddest will lead ine as soon’es I have
warmed myself at the fire,andthe sun has grown
hot. For miserably poor ate these garments which
I wear, and I fear lest the morning frost may over-
come me; and ye say it is far to the city.””
                                                     153

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_164>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 26-54
    So he spoke, and Telemachus passed out through
 the farmstead with rapid strides, and was sowing the
seeds of evil for the wooers. But when he came to
 the stately house he set his spear in place, leaning
it against ἃ tall pillar, and himself went in and
 crossed the threshold of stone.
    Him the nurse Eurycleia was far the first to see,
as she was spreading fleeces on the richly-wrought
chairs, With a burst of tears she came straight
toward him, and round about them gathered the
other maids of Odysseus of the steadfast heart, and
they kissed his head and shoulders in loving welcome.
    ‘Then forth from her chamber came wise Penelope,
like unto Artemis or golden Aphrodite, and bursting
into tears she flung her arms about her dear son, and
kissed his head and both his beautiful eyes; and
with wailing she spoke to him winged words:
    “Thou art come, Telemachus, sweet light of my
eyes I thought I should never see thee more after
   ἰοὺ hadst gone in thy shiptoPylos—seeretly, and
in my despite, to seek tidings of thy dear father,
Come, then, tell me what sight thou hadst of him.”
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her: “My mother,
stir not lamentation, I pray thee, nor rouse the heart
in my breast, seeing that I am escaped from utter
destruction. "Nay, bathe thyself, and take clean
raiment for thy body, and then, going to thy upper
chamber with thy handmaids, vow to all the gods
that thou wilt offer hecatombs that bring fulfilment,
in the hope that Zeus may some day bring deeds of
requital to pass. But I will go to the place of as-
sembly that I may bidto our house ἃ stranger who
followed me from Pylos on my way hither. Him I
sent forward with my godlike comrades, and I bade
                                                   155

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_166>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 55-81
Peiraeus take him home and give him kindly wel-
come, and show him honour until I should come,
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged.t
‘Then she bathed and took clean raiment for her
body, and vowed to all the gods that she would offer
heeatombs that bring fulfilment, in the hope that
Zeus would some day bring deeds of requital to
=But Telemachus thereafter went forth through the
bil wits Me mpenr ἴα lo Gur, sad with bu went
two swift hounds. And wondrous was the grace that
ἀγλοπο    ομεὰ cate,
τὰthronged,
     πα apie    eat ional
                     Bound    α tae
                           about him pearls ππατνοίϊοὰ
                                     theproad  waters
             speaking him fair, but pondering evil in
the deep of their hearts.   Howbeit he avoided the
great throng of these men, but where Mentor sat,
and Antiphus, and Halitherses, who were friends of
his father's house from of old, there he went and sat
down, and they'questioned him of each thing. ‘Then
Peiracus, the famous spearman, drew near, leading
the stranger through the city to the place of as-
sembly; and Telemachus did not long turn away
fren, fie guest δὲ wank up Yo bin, hon Petree
was the frst to speak, saying:
   “Telemachus, quickly send women to my house,
that 1may send to thee the gits which Meneaus
"Then ‘wiseTelemachus answered him: 4 Peifaeus,
we know not how these things will be. If the proud
overs shall secretly slay me in my hall, and divide
ἀπιοηᾳ thom all εἰς lols af ang lather, ψουϊὰ
that thou shouldest keep and enjoy these things
thyself rather than one of these. But if I shall sow
               Ὁ That is, she made no reply.
                                                 157

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_168>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 82-110
 for them the seeds of deatl: umd fate, then do, thou
 bring all to my house lady, as shall be ld.”
    So saying, he led the sore-tried stranger to the
 house. Now when they had come tothe stately house
 they laid their cloaks’on the chairs and high seats,
 and went into the polished baths and bathed. And
 when the maids had bathed them and anointed them
 with ofl, and had cast about them fleecy cloaks and
 tunies, they came forth from the baths and ext down
 upon the chairs. ‘Then a handmaid brought water
 forthe hands in a fr pitcher of gold, and poured it
 over asilver basin for thein to wash, and beside them
 drew up a polished table. And the grave housewife
 Drought and set before them bread, and therewith
 meats in abundance, granting freely of her store.
 ‘And his mother sat over against Telemachus by the
 Goor-post of the hall, leaning against a chair and
 spinning fine threads of yarn, So they put forth
 their hands to the good cheer lying ready before
 them. But when they had put from them the desire
 of food and drink, the wise Penelope spoke first
 among, them:                a
    “Telemachus, Itruly will go to my upper chamber
and ley me on tay bed)  which hes become for me ἃ
 bed of wailing, ever wet with my tears, since the
day when Odysseus set forth with the sons of Atreus
for Ilios. But thou tookest no care, before the proud
‘wooers come into this house, to tell me plainly of
the, retam of thy ‘father, if haply thou heardest
aught.”
   ‘And wise Telemachus answered her: Then
verily, mother, I will tell thee all the trath. We
went to Pylos’ and to Nestor, the shepherd of the
people, and he received me in his lofty house and
                                                   159

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_170>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. x13-141
gave me kindly welcome, as a father might his own
son who after a long time had newly come from afar:
 even so kindly he tended me with his glorious sons.
 Yet of Odysseus of the steadfast heart, whether
living or dead, he said he had heard naught from
any man on earth. But he sent me on my way with
horses and jointed car to Menclaus, son of Atreus,
the famous spearman, There I saw Argive Helen,
for whose sake Argives and ‘Trojans toiled much by
 the will of the gods. And straightway Menelaus,
good at the war-cry, asked me in quest of what I
had come to goodly Lacedacmon; and I told him
all the truth. Then he made answer to me, and
    “Out upon them! for verily in the bed of ἃ man
of valiant lieart were they fain to lie, who are them.
selves cravens. Even as when in the thicket-lair of
ἃ mighty lion a hind has laid to sleep her new-born
suckling fawns, and roams over the mountain slopes
and grassy vales seeking pasture, and then the lion
comes to hislair and upon the two lets loose «
eruel doom, so will Odysseus let loose a cruel doom
upon these men. I would, O father Zeus, and Athene,
and Apollo, that in such strength,aswhen once   infair-
stablished Lesbos he rose up and wrestled a match
with Philomeleides and threw him mightily, and all
the Achacans rejoiced, even in such strength Odysseus
might come among the wooers; then should they all
find swift destruction and bitterness in their wooing.
But in this matter of which thou dost ask and entreat
me, verily I will not swerve aside to speak of other
things, nor will I deceive thee; but of all that the
unerring old man of the sea told me, not one thing
                                                   x61

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_172>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 142-168
  will I hide from thee or conceal, He said that he
 had seen Odysseus in an island in grievous.distress,
 in the halls of the nymph Calypso, who keeps him
 there perforce. And he cannot come to his own
 native land, for he has at hand no ships with oars,
 and no comrades, to send him on his way over the
 broad back of the sea.”
     “So spoke Menelaus, son of Atreus, the famous
 spearman. Now when I had made an end of all this
 T'set out for home, and the immortals gave me ἃ
 fair wind and brought me quickly to my dear native
 Jand.
     So he spoke, and stirred the heart in her breast.
 ‘Then among them spoke also the godlike Theoety-
 menus, sayin
     “ Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Lacrtes, he
 traly hs no clear understanding; but do thou heaven
 to my words, for with certain knowledge will I pro
phesy to thee, and will hide naught. Be my witness
 Zeus above all gods, and this hospitable board and the
hearth of noble Odysseus to which I am come, that
verily Odysseus is even now in his native land, resting
or moving, learning of these evil deeds, and he is
sowing the seeds of evil for all the wooers. So plain
‘a bird of omen did I mark as I sat on the benched
ship, and I declared it to Telemachus.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Ah, stranger,
I would that this word of thine might be fulfilled,
Then shouldest thon straightway know of kindness
and many a gift from me, so that one who met thee
‘would call thee blessed.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. And the wooers
meanwhile in front of the palace of Odysseus were
making merry, throwing the discus and the javelin
                                                  163

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_174>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 169-196
  in a levelled place, as their wont was, in insolence of
 heart. But when it was the hour for dinner, and the
 flocks came in from all sides from the fields, and the
 men led them who were wont to lead, then Medon,
 why of all the heralds was most to their liking and
 was ever present at their feasts, spoke to them,
 saying:
    “Youths, now that you have all made glad your
 hearts with sport, come to the house that we may
 make readyafeast; for it is no bad thing to take
 ‘one’s dinner in season.
    So he spoke, and they rose up and went, and
 hearkened to his word. And when they had come
 to the stately house they laid their cloaks on the
 chairs arid high seats, and men fell to slaying great
 sheep and fat goats, aye, and fated swine, and a
 heifer of the herd, and so made ready the meal.
 But Odysseus andthegoodly swineherd were making
 haste to go from the field to the city; and the
swineherd, a leader of men, spoke first, and said :
    “Stranger, since thou art eager to go to the city
to-day, a3 my master bade—though for myself 1
would rather have thee left, here to keep the farm-
stead; but I reverence and fear him, lest hereafter
he chide me, and hard are the rebukes of masters—
come now, let us go. The day is far spent, and soon
thou wilt find it colder toward evening.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “I see, 1 give heed; this thou biddest one
with understanding. Come, let us go, and be thou
my guide all the way. But give me a staff to lean
upon, if thou hast one eut anywhere, for verily ye
said that the way was treacherous.”
                                                     165

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_176>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 197-223
      He spoke, and flung about his shoulders his miser-
  able wallet, full of holes, slung by a twisted cord,
 and Eumaeits gave him a stafftohis liking. So they
  two set forth, and the dogs and the herdsmen stayed
 Debind to guard the farmstead ;but the swineherd
  Jed his master to the city in the likeness of a woeful
 and aged beggar, leaning on a staff; and miserable
 ‘was the raiment that he wore about his body.
      But when, asthey wentalong the rugged path, they
 were near the city, and had come to a well-wrought,
 fair-flowing fountain, wherefrom the townsfolk drew
 water—this Ithacus had made, and Neritus, and
 Polyctor, and around was a grove of poplars, that
 grow by the waters, circling it on all sides, and down
 the cold water flowed from the rock above, and on
 the top was built an altar to the nymphs where all
 passers-by made offerings—there Melantheus, son of
 Dolius, met them as he was driving his she-goats, the
 best that were in all the herds, to make a feast for
 the wooers; and two herdsmen followed with him.
 As he saw them, he spoke and addressed them, and
reviled them in terrible and unseemly words, and
 stirred the heart of Odysseus:
     «Lo, now, in very truth the vile leads the vile.
As ever, the god is Bringing like and like together.
Whither, pray, art thou leading this filthy wretch,}
thou miserable swineherd, this nuisance of a beggar
to mar our feasts? He is a man to stand and rub
his shoulders on many doorposts, begging for scraps,
not for swords or cauldrons.? If thou wouldest give
me this fellow to keep my farmstead,tosweep out
   4 Tho meaning of tho word is uncertain, It is often
rendered " glatianous Ἢ
   μεν ἴοι such gifta as were ordinarily given to princely
                                                       167

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_178>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 224-249
 bythe drinking
           pens and tocarry young shoots to the kids, then
                    whey he might get himself « sturdy
  thigh, Butsince he has learned only deedsofevil,
 he will not care to busy himself with work, but is
 minded rather to go skulking through the land, that
 by begging he may feed his insatiate belly. But I
 ‘will speak out to thee, and this word shall verily be
 brought to pass. If he comes to the palace of divine
 ‘Odysseus, many a footstool, hurled about his head by
 the hands of those that are men, shall be broken on
 his ribs? as he is pelted through the house.”
      So he spoke, and as he passed he kicked Odysseus
 on the hip in his folly, yet he did not drive him
 from the path, buthe stood steadfast. And Odysseus
 pondered whetherhe should leap upon him and take
 his life with his staff, or seize him round about,? and
 Jifthim up, and dash his head upon the ground. Yet
 he endured, and stayed him from his purpose. And
 the swineherd looked the man in the face, and re-
 uked him, and lifted up hishands, and prayed aloud :
     “Nymphs of the fountain, daughters of Zeus, if
‘ever Odysseus burned upon your altars pieces of the
 thighs of lamabs or kids, wrapped in rich fat, fal6l for
me this prayer; grant that he, my master, may come
back, and that some god may guide him. ‘Then
 would he scatter all the proud airs which now thou
puttest on in thy insolence, ever roaming about the
city, while evil herdsmen destroy the flock.”
     "Then Mcleathius, the goatherd, answered. him:
“Lo now, how the cur talks, his mind full of mischie
Him will I some day take on a black, benched ship
  2Or, reading πλενρά τ᾽, “shall bang about his head and on
big iba.”
    3 "The only thing certain about this obscure word seers to
be the preposition
                                                         169

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_180>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 250-277
 far from Ithaca, that he may bring me in much
 wealth, Would that Apollo, of the silver bow, might
 smite Telemachus to-day in the halls, or that he might
 be sain bythe wovers as surely as for Odysseus in
 far land the day of return has been lost.”
    So saying, he left them there, as they walked
 slowly on, but himself strode forward and right
 swiftly came to the palace of the king. Straightway
 he entered in and sat down among the wooers over
against Burymachus, for he loved him best of all.
‘Then by him those that served set portion of meat,
and the grave housewife broughtandset before him
bread, for him to eat. And Odysseus and the goodly
swineherd halted as they drew nigh, and about them
rang the sound of the hollow lyre, for Phemius      was
striking the chords to sing before the wovers, ‘Then
Odysseus clasped the swineherd by the hand, and
said :
    “Bumaeus, surely this is the beautiful house of
Odysseus. Easily might it be known, though seen
among many. There is building upon building, and
the court is built with wall and coping, and the
double gates are well-fenced; no man may scorn
it. And I mark that in the house itselfmany men
are feasting: for the savour of meat arises from it,
and therewith resounds the voice of the lyre, which
the gods have made the companion of the feast.”
    To him then,swineherd Eumacus, didst thou make
answer, and say: Rasly hast thou marked it, fr
in all things thou art ready of wit. But come, let us,
take thought how these things shall be. Either do
thou go first into the stately palace, and gnter the
company of the wooers, and I will’ remain behind
here, oF, if thon wilt, remain thou here and 1 will
                                                  ἀγα

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_182>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII 278-306
 g0 before thee. But do not thou linger long, lest
 some man see thee without and pelt thee or smite
 thee. OF this Ibid thee take thought.”
    Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus an-
 swered him: “TI see, I give heed :this thou biddest
 one with understanding. But go thou before, and I
 will remain behind here} for no whit unused am I to
 blows and peltings. Staunch is my heart, for much
 evil have I suffered amid the waves and in war ;let
 this too be added to what has gone before. But a
 ravening belly may no man hide, an accursed plague
 that brings many evils upon men, Because of it are
 the benched ships also made ready, that bear evil to
 foemen over the unresting sea.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. And a hound
 that lay there raised his head and pricked up his ears,
Argos, the hound of Odysseus, of the steadfast heart,
whom of old he had himself bred, but had no joy of
him, for ere that he went to sacred Ilios. In days
past the young men were wont to take the hound to
hunt the wild goats, and deer, and hares; but now
he lay neglected, his master gone, in the deep dung
οἵ mules and cattle, which lay in heaps before the
doors, till the slaves of Odysseus should take it away
to dung his wide lands. ‘There lay the hound Argos,
fall of vermin; yet even now, when he marked
Odysseus standing near, he wagged his tail and
dropped both his ears, but nearer to his master he
had no longer strength to move. Then Odysseus
 cooked aside and wiped away a tear, easily hiding
from Bumaeus what he did; and straightway he
questioned him, and said
   ‘“Eumacus, verily it is strange that this hound lies
                                                   173

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_184>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 307-333
  here in the dung. He is fine of form, but I do not
  clearly know whether he has speed of foot to match
  this beauty or whether he is merely as table-dogs
  are, which their masters keep for show.”
     ‘To him then, swincherd Eomaeus, didst thou make
 answer and say: “Aye, verily this is the hound of a
 man that has died in a far land. If he were but in
 form and in action such as he was when Odysseus
 left him and went to Troy, thou wouldest soon be
 amazed at seeing his speed and his strength. No
 creature that he started in the depths of the thick
 wood could eseape him, and in tracking too he was
 keen of scent. But now he is in evil plight, and
 hhis master has perished far from his native lund,
 and the heedless women give him no care. Slaves,
 when their masters lose their power, are no longer
 minded thereafter to do honest service: for Zeus,
 whose voice is bome afar, takes away half his worth
 from a man, when the day of slavery comes upon
 hi
    So saying, he entered the stately house and went
 straight to the hall to join the company of the lordly
 wooers. But as for Argos, the fate of black death
seized him straightway when he had seen Odysseus
fn the twentieth year,
    ‘Now as the swineherd came through the hall god-
like Telemachus was far the first to see him, and
quickly with anod he called him to his side, ’And
Eumaeus looked about him and took a stool that
lay near,onwhich the carver was wont to sit when
carving for the wooers the many joints of meat, as
‘they feasted in the hall, This he took and placed at
the table of Telemachus, over against him, and there
                                                   175

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_186>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 334-360
 sat down himself, And n herald took a portion of
 meat and set it before him, and bread from out the
 basket.
    Nigh after him Odysseus entered the palace in the
 likeness of a woeful and aged beggar, leaning on a
staff, and miserable was the raiment that he wore
about his body. He sat down upon the ashen thresh-
old within the doorway, leaning against a post of
 eypress wood, which of old ἃ carpenter had skilfully
planed, and made straight to the line. Then Tele-
machus called the swincherd to him, and, taking a
whole loaf from out the beaatifal basket, and all the
meat his hands could hold in their grasp, spoke to
him, saying:
    «Take, and give this mess toyon stranger, and bid
him go about himself and beg of the wooers one and
all, “Shame is no good comrade for ἃ man thatisin
need.”
    So he spoke, and the swincherd went, when he.
had heard this saying, and coming up to Odysseus
spoke to him winged words:
    “Stranger, Telemachus gives thee these, and bids
thee go about and beg of the wooers one and all.
Shame, he says, s no good thing in a beggar man.”
    ‘Then Odysscus of many wiles answered him, and
said, King Zeus, grant, I pray thee,that Telemachus
may be blest among men, and may have all that his
heart desires.”
    He spoke, and took the mess in both his hands
and set it down there before his feet on his miserable
wallet. Then he ate 80 long as the minstrel sang
in the halls. But when he had dined and the divine
minstrel was ceasing to sing, the wooers broke into
uproar throughout the halls; but Athene drew close
                                                   7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_188>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 361-388
tothe side of Odysseus, son of Laertes, and roused
him to go among the wooers and gather bits of bread,
and learn which of them were righteous and whieh
lawless. Yet even so she was not minded to save
fone of them from ruin, So he set out to begof
every man, beginning on the right, stretching out
his hand on every side, as though he had been long
ἃ beggar. And’they pitied him and gave, and mar-
yelled at him, asking one another who he was and
whence he came.                    :
   Then among them spoke Melanthius, the gost
herd: “Hear me, wooers of the gloricus φυδεή το.
   ring this stranger, for verily 1 have seen ‘him
Fetores Truly it was the swingherd that led him
hither, but of the man himself I know not surely
from whence he declares his birth to be.”
   So he spoke, and Antinous rebuked the swineherd,
saying: “Notorious swineherd, why, pray, didst
thou bring this man to the city? Have we not
vagabonds enough without him, nuisances of beggars
to mar our feasts? Dost thou not think it enough
that they gather here and devour the substance of
thy master, that thou dost bid this fellow too?”
   To him then, swineherd Eumaeus, didst thou
make answer, and say: “Antinous, no fair words are
these thou speakest, noble though thou art. Who,
pray, of himself ever seeks out and bids a stranger
from abroad, unless it be one of those that are
masters of some public craft, a prophet, or a healer
of ills, or a builder, aye, or a divine minstrel, who
             cht with’ his song? For these men are
Bidden all over the boundless earth, Yet a beggar
would no man bid to be burden to himself, But
thou art ever harsh above all the wooers to the
                                                   119

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_190>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 389-414
  slaves of Odysseus, and most of all to me; yet 1
  care not, so long as my lady, the constant Penélope,
  lives in the hall, and godlike Telemachus.”
       ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Be silent:
  do not, I bid thee, answer yonder man with many
  words, for Antinous is wont ever in evil wise to pro-
  voke to anger with harsh words, aye, and urges on
  the others too.””
       With this he spoke winged words to Antinous:
  «Antinous, truly thou carest well for me, as a father
 for hisson, seeing that thou biddest me drive yonder
 stranger from the hall with a word of compulsion,
  May the god never bring such a thing to pass. Nay,
 take and give him somewhat: I begrudge it not,
 but rather myself bid thee give. the
 regard not my mother, no, nor any of
                                                 inthisslavesmatter
                                                               that
 are in the house of divine Odysseus. But verily far
 other is the thought in thy breast; for thou art far
 ‘more fain thyself to eat than to give to another.
      Then Antinous answered him, and said: “Tele
 machus, thou braggart, unrestrained in daring, what
‘athing hast thou said! If all the wooers would but
 hand him as much as I, for full three months’ space
 this house would keep him at a distance.”
      So he spoke, and seized the footstool on which he
 was wont to rest his shining feetashe feasted, and
shewed it from beneath the table, where it lay. But
all the rest gave gifts, and filled the wallet with
bread and bits of meat. And now Odysseus was
like to have gone back again to the threshold, and
to have made trial of the Achaeans without cost, but
he, paused by Antinous, and spoke to him, saying :
    "ie, to have tented their generosity with impunity.
‘Others
‘yan about  render, ttt
                     les of
                         in.he
                             accordance
                              bounty ofthe"with Achasnna”
                                                   Homerio arageτος,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_192>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 415-442
      “Friend, give me some gift; thou seemest not in
  my eyes to be the basest of the Achaeans, but rather
  the noblest, for thou art like a king. ‘Therefore it is
  meet that thou shouldest give even a better portion
  of bread than the rest; so would 1 make thy fame
  known all over the boundless earth. For too once
  dwelt in ἃ house of my own among men, ἃ rich man
 ina wealthy house, and full often I gave gifts toa
 wanderer, whosoever he was and with whatsoever
 need he came. Slaves too I had past counting, and
 all other things in abundance whereby men live well
 and are reputed wealthy. But Zeus, son of Cronos,
 Drought all to naught—so, I ween, was his good
 pleasure—who sent me forth with roaming pirates to
 go to Egypt, a far voyage, that I might meet my
 rain; and in the river Aegyptus I moored my curved
 ships. Then verily I bade my trusty comrades to
 remain there by the ships and to guard the ships, and
 Τ sent out scouts to go to places of outlook. But my
 comrades, yieldingtowantonness and led on by their
 own might, straightway set about wasting the fair
 felds of the men of Bgypt; and they eared of the
‘women and little children,     andslew the men; and
the ery came quickly to the city. Then, hearing
the shouting, the people came forth at break of day,
and the whole plain was filled with footmen and
chariots and the flashing of bronze. And Zeus, who
hurls the thunderbolt, cast an evil panic upon my
comrades, and none had courage to take his stand
and face ‘the foe; for evil surrounded us on every
side, So then they slew many of us with the sharp
bronze, and others they led up to their city alive, to
work for them perforce. But they gave me to
ἃ friend who met them to take to Cyprus, even to
                                                    183

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_194>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 443-467
  Dmetor,sonof Iasus, whoruled mightily over Cyprus;
 and fiom, thenee “am I now come hither, sore
 distressed.”
      Then Antinous answered him, and said: “What
    od has brought this bane hither to trouble our feast?
    just stand of yonder in the midst, away from x;
 table, lest thou come presently to a bitter Egypt an
 ἃ bitter Cyprus, seeing that thou art a bold and
 shameless beggar. ‘Thou comest up to every man in
 ‘turn, and they give recklessly; for there is no re-
 straint or seraple in giving freely of another's goods,
 since each man has plenty beside him.”
      "Then Odysseus ofmany wiles drew back, and said
 to him: ‘Lo, now, it seems that thou at least hast
 not wits to match thy beauty. ‘Thou wouldest not
 out of thine own substance give even ἃ grain of salt
 to thy suppliant, thou who now, when sitting at
 another's table, hadst not the heart to take of the
 bread and give me aught. Yet here lies plenty at
 thy hand.”
     "Gohe spoke, and Antinous waxed the more wroth
at heart, and with an angry glance from beneath
 his brows spoke to him winged word
      “Now verily, methinks, thou shalt no more go
forth from the hall in seemalyfashion, since thou dost
even utter words of reviling.”
     So saying,heseized the footstool and flung it, and
struck Odysseus on the base of the right shoulder,
where it joins the back. But he stood firm as a
rock, nor did the missile of Antinous make him reel ;
but he shook his head in silence, pondering evil in
the deep of his heart. ‘Then back tothe threshold
he went ani sat down, and down he laid his well-
filled wallet; and he spoke among the wooers:
                                                     185

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_196>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 468-494
   “Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
may say what the heart in my breast bids me. Veri
there is no pain of heart nor any grief when a man is
smitten while fighting for, his own possessions,
whether for his cattle or for his white sheep ;but
Antinous has smitten me for my wretched belly’s
sake, an accursed plague that brings many evils upon
men. Ah, if for beggars there are gods and avengers,
may the doom of death come upon Antinous before
his marriage.”
   “Then Antinous, son of Bupeithes, answered him




wretched wenderet, “Doomed tan thet thou are
what if haply he be some god come down from
heaven! Aye,and the gods in the guise of    strangers
from afar put on all manner of shapes, and visit the
cities, beholding the violence and the righteousness
of men.”
   So spoke the wooers, but Antinous paid no heed to
their words. And Telemachus nursed in his heart
great grief for the smiting, though he let no tear fall
from his eyelids to the ground; but he shook his
head in silence, pondering evil in the deep of his
heart.
   Howbeit when wise Penelope heard of the man’
being smitten in the hall, she spoke among her
handmaids, and said: “Even so may thine own self
be smitten by the famed archer Apollo.”
    °                                              187

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_198>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 495-524
    And again the housewife Eurynome said toher:
 “Would that falélment might be granted to our
prayers. So should not one of these men come to
the fair-throned Dawn.”
    ‘And wise Penelope answered her: “Nurse, enemies
are they all, for they devise evil. But Antinous more
 than all is like black fate. Some wretched stranger
roams through the house, begging alms of themen, for
‘want compéls him, andail the others filled his wallet
and gave him gifts, but Antinous flung a footstool
and smote him at the base of the right shoulder.”
    So she spoke among her handmaids, sitting in her
‘chamber, while goodly Odysseus was at meat. ‘Then
she called to her the goodly swineherd, and said:
   “Go, goodly Eumaeus, and bid the stranger come
hither, that J may give him greeting, and ask him if
hhaply he has heard ofOdysseus of the steadiast heart,
‘or has seen him with his eyes. He seems like one
‘hat has wandered far.”
   To her, then, swincherd Eumaeus, didst thoumake
answer, and say: “I would, O queen, that the Achae-
ans wotld keep silence, for he speaks such words as
‘would charm thy very soul. Three nights I had him
by me, and three days I kept him in my hut, for to
ime first, he came when he fled by stealth from a ship,
but he had not yet ended the tale of his sufferings.
Bren as when 4 man gates upon ἃ minstrel who
sings to mortals songs of longing that the gods have
‘taught him, and their desire to hear him has no end,
whensoever he sings, even so he charmed me as he
sat in my ball, He says that he is an ancestral friend
of Odysseus, and that he dwells in Crete, where is
the race of Minos. From thence has he now come
on this journey hither, ever suffering woes as he
                                                  189

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_200>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 525-552
 wanders on and on. And he insist that he has
heard tidings of Odysseus, near at hand in the rich
land of the Thesprotians and yet alive; and he is
bringing many treasures to his home.
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: Go, call him
hither, that he may himself tell me to my face. But
as for these men, let them make sportasthey sit in
the doorway'or here in the house, since their hearts
are merry. For their own possessions lie untouched
in their homes, bread and sweet wine, and on these
do their servants feed. But themselves throng our
house day after day, slaying our oxen, and sheep,
and fat goats,andkeep revel and drink’ the flaming
wine recklessly, and havoc is made of all this wealth,
for there is no’ man here such as Odysseus was to
keep ruin from the house. But if Odysseus should
come and return to his native land, straightway
would he with his son take vengeance on these men
for their violent deeds.”
   So she spoke, and Telemachus sneezed loudly, and
all the room round about echoed wondrously. And
Penelope laughed, and straightway spoke to Eu-
‘maeus winged words:
   “Go, pray, call the stranger here before me. Dost
thou not note that my son has sneezed at all my
words. Therefore shall utter death fall upon the
‘wooers one and all, nor shall one of them escape
death and the fates.” And another thing will T tell
thee, and do thou lay it to heart. If I find that
he speaks all things truly, I will clothe him in a
cloak and tunic, fair raiment.”
   So she spoke, and the swineherd went when he
had heard this         saying; and coming up to Odysseus
he spoke to him winged words:
                                                   ἴοι

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_202>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 553-580
    “Sir stranger, wise Penelope calls for thee, the
mother of Telemachus, and her heart bids her make
enquiry about her husband, though she has suffered
many woes. And if she finds that thou speakest all
things truly, she will clothe thee ina cloak and
tunic, which’ thou needest most of all. As for thy
food, thou shalt beg it through the land, and feed
thy belly, and whoso will shall give it thee.”
   ‘Then the much-enduring goodly Odysseus answered
him: “Eumaeus, soon will I tell all the truth to the
daughter of Jcarius, wise Penelope. For well do 1
know of Odysseus, and in common have we borne
affliction. But I have fear of this throng of harsh
‘wooers, whose wantonness and violence reach the
fron heaven, For even now, when, as I was going
through the hall doing no evil, this man struck me
and hurt me, neither Telemachus nor any other did
‘aught to ward off the blow. Wherefore now bid
Penelope towaitin the halls, eager though she be,
till set of sun; and then let her ask me ofher bus
band regarding the day of his return, giving me a
seat nearer the fire, for lo, the raiment that I wear is
mean, and this thou knowest of thyself, for to thee
first did I make my prayer.”
   So he spoke, and the swineherd went when he
had heard this saying. And as he passed over the
threshold Penelope said to hit
   “Thou dost not bring him, Eumaeus, What does
the wanderer mean by this?’ Does-he fear some one
beyond measure, or does he ily feel ashamed in the
house? Tis ill for a beggar to feel shame.”
   ‘To her, then, swineherd Eumacus, didst thou
make answer and say: “He speaks rightly, even
as any other man would deem, in secking to shun
                                                     193

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_204>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 581-606
the insolence of overweening men. But he bids
thee to wait till set of sun. And for thyself, too,
it is far more seemly, O queen, to speak to the
stranger alone, and to hear his words.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him : Not without
wisdom is the stranger; he divines how it may be.
There are no mortal men, methinks, who in wanton
ness devise such wicked folly as these.”
    So she spoke, and the goodly swincherd departed
into the throng of the wooers when he had told her
all, And straightway he spoke winged words to
‘Telemachus, holding his head close to him that the
others might not hear:
    “Friend, Iam going forth to guard the swine and
all things there, thy livelihood and mine; but have
thou charge of all things here. Thine own self do
thou keep safe first of all, and let thy mind beware
lest some ill befall thee, for many of the Achacans
are devising evil, whom’ may Zeus utterly destroy
before harm fall’on us
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “So shall
it be, father; go thy way when thou hast supped.
‘And in the morning do thou come and bring goodly
vietims. But all matters here shall be a care to me
and to the immortals.
    So he spoke, and the swineherd sat down again on
the polished chair. But when he had satisfied his
heart with meat and drink, he went hts way to the
swine, and left. the courts and the hall full of ban-
queters. And they were making merry with dance
and song, for evening had now come on.


                                                 195,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_206>>>
BOOK       XVIII

    Now there came up a publie beggar who was
wont to beg through the town of Ithaca, and was
own for δῆ greedy belly, eating. and inking
without end. No strength had he nor might, but
     bulk was big indeed to look upon, Amaeus was
   is name, for this name his honoured mother had
given him at his birth but Irus all the young men
    led him, because he used to run on errands? when
anyone bade him, He eame now, and was for driving
Odysseus from his own house; and he began torevile
him, and spoke winged words
    «Give way, old man, from the doorway, lest: soon
thou be even dragged out by the foot. Dost δ
not see that all men are winking at me, and bid
tne drag thee? Yet for myself Lam ashamed todo
it, Nay, up with thee, lest our quarrel even come
to blows.”
    Then with an angry glance from beneath his
brows Odysseus of many wiles answered him:
“Good fellow, I harm thee not in deed or word,
nor do I begridge that any man should give thee,
though the portion he took up were a large one.
‘This. threshold will hola us both, and thou hast
no need to be jealous for the goods of other folk.
Thou seemest to me to be a vagrant, even as I
am; and as for happy fortune, it is the gods that
  2And jin therefore compared to Iris, the memenger of
Olympus.
                                                   197

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_208>>>
THE ODYSSRY, XVIII. 20-46
 are like to give us that. But with thy fists do not
 provoke me overmuch, lest thou anger me, and, old
 man though I am, I befoul thy breast and lips with
 blood. 80 should 1 have the greater peace to-
morrow, for I deem not that thou shalt return a
second time to the hall of Odysseus, son of Laertes.
    Then, waxing wroth, the vagrant Irus said to hi
“Now see how glibly the filthy wretch talks, like an
old kitchen-wife. But I will devise evil for him,
smiting him left and right, and will scatter on the
ground al the teeth from’his jaws, as though he
 were ἃ swine wasting the cor. Gird thyself now,
that these men, too, may all know our fighting. But
how couldst thou fight with a younger man?”
    Thus on the polished threshold before the lofty
doors they stirred one another's rage right heartily.
‘And the strong and mighty Antinous heard the two,
‘and, breaking into a merry laugh, he spoke among
the wooers:
    “Friends, never before has such a thing come to
pass, that a god has brought sport like this to this
house. Yon stranger and Trus are provoking one
another to blows. Come, let us quickly set them on.
    80 he spoke, and they all sprang up laughing and
gathered about the tattered beggars. And Antinous,
son of Eupeithes, spoke among them, and said:
    «Hear me, ye proud wooers, that I may say some-
what, Here at the fire are goats’ paunches lying,
which we set there for supper, when we had filled
them with fat and blood. Now whichever of the
two wins and proves himself the better man, let him
   ἃ The thought wo are both vagrantes whether either
of us everattains toa pio ation ft rete with the
βοάν, who arbitrarily allot or ef vi 188

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_210>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΥΤΙ. 47-72
 rise and choose for himself which one of these he
will. And farthermore he shall always feast with
 us, nor will we suffer any other beggar to join our
 company and beg of us.
     So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
 them, Then with crafty mind Odysseus of many
 wiles spoke among them:
    “Friends, inno wise may an old man that fs over-
 come with woe fight with a younger. Howbeit my
 belly, that worker of evil, urges me on, that I may
 be overcome by his blows, But come now, do you
 all swear to me a mighty oath, to the end that no
 ‘man, doing a favour to Irus, may deal me a foul blow
 with heavy hand, and so by violence subdue me to
 this fellow.”
    So he spoke, and they all gave the oath not to
 smite him, even as he bade. But when they had
 sworn and made an end of the oath, among them
 spoke agnin the strong and mighty Telemachus:
    “Stranger, if thy heart and thy proud spirit bid
 thee beat off this fellow, then fear not thou any man
 of all the Achaeans, for whoso strikes thee shall
 have to fight with more than thou. Thy host am I,
 and the princes assent hereto, Antinous and Eury-
 machus, men of prudence both.”
    So he spoke, and they all praised his words. But
 Odysseus girded his rags about bis loins and showed
 his thighs, comely and great, and his broad shoulders
 came to view, and his chest and mighty arms. And
 Athene drew nigh and made greater the limbs of
 ‘the shepherd of the people. ‘Then ΑἹ the wooers
 marvelled exceedingly, and thus would one speak
 with ἃ glance at his neighbour:
                                                  tox

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_212>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 73-97
    “Right soon sball Irus, un-Irused, have a bane
 of his own bringing, such a thigh does yon old man
 show from beneath his rags.”
    So they spoke, and the mind of Irus was miser-
 ably shaken; yet even so the serving men girded
 him, and led him out perforce all filled with dread,
‘and his flesh trembled on his limbs. ‘Then Antinous
 rated him and spoke, and addressed him:
    «Better were it now, thou braggart, that thou
‘wert not living, nor hadst ever been born, if thou
quailest and art so terribly afraid of this fellow—a
man that is old and overcome by the woe that has
come upon him. But I will speak out to thee, and
this word shall verily be brought to pass. If this
fellow conquers thee and proves the better man, I
will fling thee into a black ship and send thee to the
mainland to King Echetus, the maimer of all men,
who will eut off thy nose and ears with the pitiless
bronze, and will draw forth thy vitals and give them
raw to dogs to rend.”
   So he spoke, and thereat yet greater trembling
seized the other's limbs, and they led him into the
ving and both men put up their hands. Then the
much-enduring, goodly Odysseus was divided in mind
whether he should strike him so that life should leave
him even there as he fell, or whether he should deal
hhim a light blow and stretch him on the earth. And,
as he pondered, this seemed to him the better course,
to deal him a light blow, that the Achaeans might
not take note of him. Thenverily,when they had put
up their hands, Irus let drive at the right shoulder,
bbut Odysseus smote him on the neck beneath the ear
and crushed in the bones, and straightway the red
Blood ran forth from his mouth, and down he fell in
                                                   203

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_214>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 98-123
the dust with a moan, and he gnashed his teeth,
kicking the ground with his feet. But the lordl
‘wooers raised their hands, and were like to die wit
laughter. Then Odysseus seized him by the foot,
and dragged him forth through the doorway until
 he eame to the court and the gates of the portico.
 And he set him down and leaned him against the
wall of the court, and thrust his staff into his hand
and spoke, and addressed him with winged words:
   Sit there now, and scare off swine and dogs, and
do not thou be lord of strangers and beggars, miser-
able that thou art, lest haply thou meet with some
‘worse thing to profit withal.”
   He spoke, and flung about his shoulders his miser-
able wallet, fall of holes, and slung by a twisted
cord. Then back to the threshold he went and sat
down; and the wooers went within, laughing merrily,
and they greeted him, saying :
   “May Zeus grant’ thee, stranger, and the other
immortal gods what thou desirest’ most, and the
dearest wish of thy heart, seeing that thou hast
made this insatiate fellow to cease from begging
in the land. For soon shall we take him to. the
mainland to King Echetus, the maimer of all
men.
   So they spoke, and goodly Odysseus was glad at
the word of omen. And Antinous set before him
the great paunch, filled with fat and blood, and Am-
phinomus took up two loaves from the basket and
set them before him, and pledged him in a cup of
gold, and said :
   « Hail, Sir stronger; may happy fortune be thine
in timetocome, though now thou art the thrall of
‘many sorrows.”
                                                   205

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_216>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΥ͂ΠῚ. 124-152
       Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
    said: ““Amphinomus, verily thou seemest to me to
    be a man of prudence; and such a man, too, was thy
    father, for I have heard of his fair fame, that Nisus
    of Dulichium was ἃ brave man and a wealthy. From
    him, they say, thou art sprung, and thou seemest a
    man soft of speech. Wherefore I will tell thee, and
    do thou give heed and hearken. Nothing feebler
    does earth nurture than man, of all things that on
|   earth are breathing and moving. For he thinks that
    he will never suffer evil in time to come, so longas
|   the gods give him prosperity and his knees are quick;
    but when again the blessed gods decree him sorrow,
    this too he bears in sore despite with steadfast heart;
    for the spirit of men upon the earth is even such a5
    ‘the day which the father  ofgods and men brings upon
    them. For I, too, was once like to be prosperous
    among men, but manydeeds of wantonness I wrought,
    yielding to’ my might and my strength, and trust
    ing in my father and my brethren. »Wherefore let
    no man soever be lawless at any time, bat let him
    keep in silence whatever gifts the gods give. Aye,
    for I see the wooers devising wantonness, wasting
    the wealth and dishonouring the wife of aman who,
    I tell thee, willnot long be away from his friends
    ‘and his native land ; nay, he is very near. But may
    some god lead thee forth hence to thy home, and
    mayest thou not mect him when he comes home to
    his dear native land. For not without bloodshed,
    methinks, will the wooers and he part one from the
    other when once he comes beneath his roof.”
       So he spoke, and pouring ἃ libation, drank of the
    honey-sweet wine, and then.gave back the cup into
    the hands of the marshaller of the people. But
                                                        207

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_218>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 153-181
Amphinomus went through the hall with a heavy
heart, bowing his head; for his spirit bode bane.
Yet even so he did not escape his fate, but him,
too, did Athene set in bonds so that he might be
slain outright at the hands of Telemachus and by
his spear. 80 he sat down again on the chair from
which he had risen.
    Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, put it in
the heart of the daughter of Iearius, wise Penelope,
to show herself to the wooers, that she might, set
their hearts a-flutter and win greater honour from
her husband and her son than heretofore. Then
she laughed a meaningless Iaugh and spoke, and
addressed the nurse:
    “Burynome, my heart longs, though it has never
longed before, to show myself to the wooers, hateful
though they are. Also I would say a word to my son
that will be for his profit, namely, that he should
not consort ever with the overweening wooers, who
speak him fair but have evil plans thereafter.”
    Then the housewife, Eurynome, spoke to her and
said :Aye, verily, child, all this’ hast thow spoken
aright. Go, then, reveal thy word to thy son and
hide it not; but firstwashthy body and anoint thy
face, and go not as thou art with both cheeks stained
with tears, Go, for it is ill to grieve ever without
ceasing. For now, behold, thy son is of such an age,
and it has been thy dearest prayer to the immortals
to see him a bearded man.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered her again: “Eury-
nome, beguile me not thus in thy love to wash my
body and anoint me with oil. All beauty of mine
have the gods, that hold Olympus, destroyed since
the day when my lord departed in the hollow ships.
                                                  209

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_220>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 182-208
Bat bid Autonoe and Hippodameia come to me, that
they may stand by my side in the hall. Alone I
willnot go among men, for Tam ashamed.”
   So she spoke, and the old woman went forth
through the chamber to bear tidings to the women,
and bid them come.
   ‘Then again the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. On the daughter of Icatius she shed
sweet sleep, and she leaned back and slept there on
her couch, and all her joints were relaxed, And
meanwhile the fair goddess was giving her im-
mortal gifts, that the Achaeans might marvel at her.
With balm! she first made fair her beautiful face,
‘with balm ambrosial, such as that wherewith Cy-
therea, of the fair erown, anoints herself when she
goes into the lovely dance of the Graces; and she
made her taller, too, and statelier to behold, and
‘made her whiter than new-sawn ivory. Now when
she had done this the fairgoddess departed, and
the white-armed handmafds came forth from the
‘chamber and drew near with sound of talking. Then
sweet sleep released Penelope, and she rubbed her
cheeks with her hands, and said:
   “Ab, in my utter wretchedness soft slumber en-
folded ‘me. Would that pure Artemis would even
now give so soft a death, that I might no more waste
my life away with sorrow at heart, longing for the
manifold excellence of my dear husband, for that he
‘was pre-eminent among the Achaeans.”
   So saying, she went down from the bright upper
chamber, not alone, for two handmaids attended her.
Now when the fair lady reached the wooers she
  2 κάλλει ἀμβροσίῳ appears tobeusedin a conorétesenso,
forsome Lind
          afpalte δὲ  einent™ (Mfonc,)
                                                  an

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_222>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 209-235
 stood bythe doorpost of the well-built hall, holdi
 Before   erfce her  shining vel's and a fatthal hand,
 maid stood on either side of her. Straightway then
 the knees of the wooers were loosened and their
 hearts enchanted with love, and they all prayed,
 each that he might lie byher side. But she spoke
 to Telemachus, her dear son:
    “Telemachus, thy mind and thy thoughts are
 no longer steadfast as heretofore. When thou wast
 but a child thou wast wont to revolve in thy mind
 thoughts more cunning; but now that thou art
gvown and hast reached the bounds of manhood,
and wouldest be called a rich man's son by one who
looked only to thy stature and thy comeliness, being.
himself a stranger from afar, thy mind and thy
 thoughts are no longer right as before. What a
thing is this that has been done in these halls, that
thou hast suffered yon stranger to be so maltreated !
 How now, if the stranger, while sitting thus in our
house, should come to some harm through grievous
mishandling? On thee, then, would fall shame and
disgrace among men.”
     then wise Telemachus answered her: “My mother,
in this matter I take it not ill that thou art filed
with anger. Yet of myself I know in my heart and
understand each thing, the good and the evil, whereas
heretofore I was but achild. But I'am not able to
plan all things wisely, for these men here thwart my
will, keeping by me, one on this side and oneon that,
vit evil purpose, and T have none to help me,
Howbeit, Ican tell thee, this battle between the
stranger and Irus fell not out according to the mind
of the wooers, but the stranger proved the better
man, I would, O father Zeus, and Athene, and
                                                   213

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_224>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII, 236-266
 Apollo, that even now the wooers were thus sub.
 dued in our halls, and were hanging their heads,
 some in the court and some within the hall, and
 that each man's limbs were loosened, even as rus
 now sits yonder by the gate of the court, hanging
 his head like a drunken man, and cannot stand erect
 upon his feet, or go home to whatsoever place he is
 wont to go, because his limbs are loosened.”
    ‘Thus they spoke to one another. But Eurymachus
addressed Penelope, and said:
    “Daughter of Tcarius, wise Penelope, if all the
Achaeans throughout lasian Argos could see thee,
‘even more wooers would be feasting in your halls
from to-morrow on, for thou excellest all women in
comeliness and stature, and in the wise heart within
thee.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Eurymachus,
all excellence of mine, both of beauty and of form,
the immortals destroyed on the day when the Ar
gives embarked for Πίος, and with them went my
husband Odysseus. Ifhe might but come and wate
over this life of mine, greater would be my fame
and fairer. But now I am in sorrow, so many woes
has some god brought upon me. Verily, when he
went forth and left his native land, he clasped my
right hand by the wrist, and said:
   “«« Wife, Ideem not that the well-greaved Achaeans
will all return from Troy safe and unscathed, for the
Trojans, men say, are men of war, hurlers of the
spear, and drawers of the bow, and driversofswift
horses, such as most quickly decide the great strife of
‘equal war. Therefore I know not whether the god
will bring me back, or whether I shall be cut off
there in the land of Troy: so have thou charge of
                                                   15

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_226>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 267-295
all things here. Be mindful of my father and my
mother in the halls even as thou art now, or yet
more, while I am far away. But when thou shalt
see my son a bearded man, wed whom thou wilt,
and leave thy house.’
    “So he spoke, ang now all this is being brought to
          The night shall come when a hateful marriage
shall fall to the lot of me accursed, whose happiness
Zeus has taken away. But herein has bitter grief
come upon my heart and βου], for such as yours was
never the way of wooers heretofore. ‘They who are
fain to woo alady of worth and the daughter ofa rich
man and vie with one another, these bring of them-
selves eatle and goodly flocks, ἃ banquet for the
friends of the bride, and give to her glorious gifts;
but they do not devour the livelihood of another
vithoutatonement”                                     ‘
      50 she spoke, and the much-enduring,
ayes ws glad, because she drew. homthes
gifts and beguled their sols with gentle words, bat
  jer mind was set on other things.
    Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke to her
again, and said: “Daughter of Icarius, wise Pene-
lope,    asforgifts, ifany man of the'Achaeansisminded
to bring them hither, do thon take them; for it is
tot wellto refuse. gift But for us, we wil goneither
to our lands nor elsewhither, until thou weddest him
whosoever is best of the Achaeans.”
    80 spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
them, and each man sent forth a herald to. brin
his gifts. For Antinous he brought a large anc
beautiful robe, richly brofdered, and in it were golden
brooches, twelve in all, fitted with curved clasps.
And a chain did another straightway bring to
                                                    a7

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_228>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII 296-321
 Burymachus, one cunningly wrought of gold, strun,
 with amber beads, bright as the sun. Apa of ears
 rings his squires brought to Burydamas, with three
 clustering? drops, and great grace shone therefrom.
 ‘And outof the house of lordPeisander, sonofPolyctor,
 his squire brought a necklace, a jewel exceeding fair.
Soof the Achaeans one brought one fair gift and one
 another. But shethereafter, the fair lady, went up
 to her upper chamber, and her handmafds bare for
 her the beautiful gifts.
    But the wooers tumed to dance and gladsome
 song, and made them merry, and waited for even-
 ing to come on. And as they made merry dark
 evening came upon them. Presently they ‘set up
three braziers in the hall to give them light, and
 round about them placed dry                long
seasoned and hard, and newly split with the
and in the spaces between they set torches?; and in
turn the handmaids of Odysseus, of the steadfast
heart, kindled the fame, ‘Then Zeus-born Odysseus,
‘ofmany wiles, himself spoke among the maids, and
said:
    “Maidens  ofOdysseus, that has long been gone, go
tothe chambers where your honoured queen abides,
and twist the yarn by her side, and make glad het
heart, as you sit in the chamber, or card the wool
with your bands; but I will give light to all these
men. For if they wish to wait for fair-throned
Dawn, they shall inno wise outdo me, I am one
‘that can endure much.”
    So he spoke, and the maids broke into a laugh,
and glanced at one another. And fair-cheeked Me-
lantho rated him shamefully, Melantho, whom Dolius
   + Or pomibly “aot among them (the faggots) buming
pinosknote.”
                                                   219
      a

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_230>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII. 322-348
 begat, but whom Penelope had reared and cherished
 fas her own child, and gave her playthings to her
 heart's desie. Yet even τὸ she’hadat heart mo
 sorrow for Penelope, but she loved Eurymachus and
 was wont to lie with him, She then rated Odysseus
 with reviling words:
     “Wretched stranger, thou art but « erack-brained
 fellow, unwilling to go to n smithy to sleep, or toa
 common lodge, but pratest here continually, un-
 abashed in the company of many lords, and hast no
 fenr'at heart. Surely wine has mastered thy wits, or
 else thy mind is ever thus, that thou dost babble idly.
 Art thou beside thyself because thou hast beaten
 that vagrant rus? Beware, lest presently another
 better than [rus shall rise up against thee to beat
thee about the head with heavy hands, and befoul
thee with streams of blood, and send thee forth from
the house.”
    Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows
Odysseus of many wiles answered her: “ Presentl
shall 1 go yonder, thou shameless thing, and tell
Telemachus, sinee’ thou speakest thus, that on the
spot he may cut thee limb from lim!
    So he spoke, and with his words scattered the
women, who fled through the hall, and thelimbs of
each were loosened beneath her in terror, for the}
thought that he spoke truth. But Odysseus too
his stand by the burning braziers to give light,
‘and looked upon all the men. Yet other things was
the heart within him pondering—things that were
not to be unfulfilled.
    But Athene would in no wise suffer the proud
wooers to abstain from bitter outrage, that pain
might sink yet deeper into the heart of Odysseus,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_232>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 349-373
son of Laertes, So among them Eurymachus, son
of Polybus, began to speak, jeering at Odysseus,
and making mirth for his companions:
   “Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
‘may say what the heart in my breast bids me. Not
without the will of the gods has this man come to
the palace of Odysseus; in any case there is a glare
of torches from him—from his head, for there is no
hair on it, no, not a trace.”?
   herewith he called to Odysseus, sacker of cities :
“Stranger, wouldest thou have a mind to serve for
hire, if Ishould take thee into service on an outly-
ing farm—thy pay shall be assured thee—gathering
stones for walls, and planting tall trees? There would
I provide thee with food the yearthrough, andclothe
ttlee with raiment and give thee sandals or thy feet.
Bat since thon hast learned only deeds of evil, thou
wilt not care to busy thyself with work, but art
minded rather to go skulking through the land, that
thou mayest have wherewith to feed thy insatiate
belly.”
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Eurymachus, I would that we two might
have a match in working in the season of spring,
when the long days come, at mowing the grass, T
with a curved scythe in my hands and thou with
another like it, and that the grass might be in plenty
that so we might test our work, fasting till late
evening. Or Iwould again that there were oxen
to drive—the best there are, tawny and large, both
well fed with grass, of like age and like power to
bear the yoke, tireless in strength—and thet there
        sand the “radiance”
      from the
                                  beoomes but the gleam of the
                   stranger's bald head.
                                                          233

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_234>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVIII 374-400
 were a field of four acres, and the soil should yield
 before the plough: then shouldest thou see me,
 whether or no I could cut a straight furrow to the
 end, Or I would again that this day the son of
Cronos might bring war upon us from whence he
would, and I had a shield and two spears and a
helmet all of bronze, that fitted well my temples:
then shouldest thou see me mingling amid the fore-
most fighters, and wouldest not prate, taunting me
with this belly of mine. But right insolent art thou,
and thy heart is eruel, and forsooth thou thinkest
thyself to be some great man and mighty, because
thou consortest with few men and weak. If but
Odysseus might return, and come to his native land,
‘soon woald yonder doors, right wide though they are,
prove all too narrow for thee in thy flight outthrough
the doorway.’
   So he spoke, and Eurymachus waxed the more
wroth at heart, and with an angry glance from
beneath his brows spoke to him winged words :
   ‘“<Wretch, presently will I work thee evil, that
thou pret thus, unabashed in the presence of
many lords, and hast no fear at heart. Surely wine
has mastered thy wits, or else thy mind is ever thus,
that thou dost babble idly. Art thou beside thyself
because thou hast beaten that vagrant Irus?”
   So saying, he seized a footstool, but Odysseus sat
down at the knees of Amphinomus of Dalichium, in
fear of Eurymachus, “And so Eurymachus struck a
cup-bearer on the right hand, and the wine-jug fell
to the ground with a clang, end the bearer groaned,
and fell backwards in the dust. Then the wooers
broke into uproar throughout the shadowy halls, and
thus would one man speak with a giance at his
neighbour:                                         Bi

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_236>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XVII. 401-428
    “Would that yon stranger had perished elsewhere
 on his wanderings or ever he came hither; then
 should he never have brought among us all this
 tumult, But now we are brawling about beggars,
 nor shall there be any joy in our rich feast, since
 worse things prevail”
    ‘Then among them spoke the strong and mighty
 Telemachus: “Strange sirs, ye are mad, and no
 longer hide that ye have eaten and drunk; some god
 surely is moving you.      Nay, now that you have well
 feasted, go to your homes and take your rest, when
your spirits bid you. Yet do 1 drive no man forth.”
    So he spoke, and they all bit their lips, and
marveled αὶ Telemachus, that he spoke boldly. But
 Amphinomus spoke, and addressed them—he was
son of the noble prince Nisus, son of Aretias:
    “Friends, no man in answer to what has been
fairly spoken would wax wroth and make reply with
wrangling words. Abuse not any more this stranger
nor any one of the slaves that are in the house of
divine Odysseus. Nay, come, let the bearer pour
drops for libation in the cups, that we may pour
bations, and go home to take our rest. As for this
stranger, let us leave him in the halls of Odysseus to
be cared for by Telemachus ;for to his house has he
   So said he, and the words that he spoke were
pleasing to all. ‘Then a bowl was mixed for them by
the lord Mulius, a herald from Dulichium, who was
squire to Amphinomus. And he served out to all,
coming up to each in tarn; and they made libations
tothe blessed gods, and drank the honey-sweet wine.
‘Then when they had made libations and had drank
to their heart's content, they went their way, each
man to his own house, to take their rest.          se

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_238>>>
BOOK XIX
   So goodly Odysseus was left behind in the hall,
planning with Athene’said the slaying of the wooers,
tndhe sraightway spoke winged words to Tele-
   “Telemachus, the weapons of war thou must needs
lay away within one and all, and when the wooers
miss them and question thee, thou must beguile
them with gentle words, saying: ‘ Out of the smoke
have I laid them, since they are no longer like those
which of old Odysseus left behind him, when he
went forth to Troy, but are all befouled, so far as the
breath of fire has reached them. And furthermore
this greater fear hasagod putinmy heart lest haply,
when heated with wine, you may set ἃ quarrel afoot
among you, and wound one another, and so_bring
shame on your feast and on your wooing. For of
itself does the iron draw a man to it."”
   So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and calling forth the nurse Eurycleia,
      to her?
   “Nurse, come now, I bid thee, shut up the women.
in their rooms, while Tlay away in the store-room the
weapons of my father, the goodly weapons which all
uncared-for the smoke bedimsinthe hall since my
father went forth, and 1 was stillachild. But now Iam
minded to lay them away, where the breath of the
fire will not come upon them.”
                                                    129

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_240>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 21-46
        Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered him:
    “Aye, child, T would thou mightest ever take thought
    to care for the house and guard all its wealth. But
    ‘come, who then shall fetch a light and bear it for
    thee, since thou wouldest not suffer the maids, who
    might have given light, to go before thee?”
       ‘Then wise Telemachus answered her; “This
Ϊ   strangerhere ; for I will suffer no man to be idle who
    touches my portion of meal,} even though he has
    ‘come from afar.”
       So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged,
    and she locked the doors ofthe stately hall. ‘Then
    the two sprang up, Odysseus and his glorious son,
    and set about bearing within the helmets and the
    bossy shields and the sharp-pointed spears; and be-
    fore them Pallas Athene, bearing a golden lamp,
    made ἃ most beauteous light. ‘Then Telemachus
    suddenly spoke to his father, and said :
        “ Rather, verily this is a great marvel that my
    behold; certainly the walls of the house andthe fair
    beams? and cross-beams of fir and the pillars that
    reach on high, glow in my eyes as with the light of
    blazing fire. Surely some godiswithin, one of those
    who hold broad heaven.”
       ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
    said: “Hush, check thy thought, and ask no question ;
    this,Itell thee, is the way of the gods that hold
    Olympus. But do thou go and take thy rest and
    Lwill remain behind here, that I may stir yet more
    the minds of the maids and of thy mother; and she
    with weeping shall ask meofeach thing separately.”
      5.        μεσόδμαιisan obscure wordwhich ini. 424 (inthesing
    dentin    the       toed  tnwhch tho mat ole aip
    Yarchun took ἦν to mean here ‘the
                                                              et Aik
                                                     Spaces between the
    ‘columna” ;others the spaces between the.beams (panels).”
                                                                    231

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_242>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 47-72
   So he spoke, and Telemachus went forth through
the hall by the light of blazing torches to go to
his chamber to lie down, where he had heretofore
been wont to rest, when sweet sleep came upon him.
‘There now too he lay down and waited for the bright
Dawn. But goodly Odysseus was left behind in the
hall, planning with Athene’s aid the slaying of the
‘wooers,
   Then wise Penelope came forth from her chamber
like unto Artemis or golden Aphrodite, and for her
they set by the fire, where she was wont to sit, a
chair inlaid with spirals of ivory and silver, which of
old the craftsman Jemalius had made, and had set
beneath it ἃ foot-stool for the feet, thet was part of
the chair, and upon itagreat fleece was wonttobe
laid. On this then wise Penelope sat down, and the
white-armed maids came forth from thé ‘women’s
hall. ‘These began to take away the abundant food,
the tables, and the cups from which the lordly men
had been drinking, and they cast the embers from
the braziers on to the floor, and piled upon the
brasiers fresh Jogs in abundancetogive light and
warmth,
   ‘But Melantho began again α second time to rate
Odysseus, saying: “Stranger, wilt thon even now:
still be a plague to us through the .night, roaming
through the house, and wilt thou spy upon the
women? Nay, get thee forth, thou wretch, and be
content with thy supper, or straightway shalt thou
even be smitten with a torch, and so go forth.”
   Then with an angry glance from beneath his
brows Odysseus of many wiles answered he
“Good woman, why, pray, dost thou thus assail
me with angry heart? Is it because 1 am foul and
                                                    333

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_244>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 73-99
 ‘wear mean raiment on my body, and beg through
 the land? Aye, for necessity compels me” Of such
 sort are beggars and vagabond folk. For I too
 once dwelt in a house of my own among men, a
 rich man in a wealthy house, and fall often I gave
gifts toa wanderer, whosoever he was and with what
soever need he came. Slaves too I had past counting
and all other things in abundance whereby men live
well and are reputed wealthy. But Zeus, son of
Cronos, brought all to naught; so, I ween, was his
good pleasure. Wherefore, woman, beware lest thou
too some day lose all the glory whereby thou now hast
excellence among the handmiaids; lest perchance thy
mistress wax wroth and be angry with thee, or
Odysseus come home; for there is yet room for hope.
But if,even as it seems, he is dead, and is no moreto
return, yet now is his son by the favour of Apollo
such as he was—even Telemachus. Him it escapes
not if any of the women in the halls work wanton-
ness ;for he is no longer the child he was.”
    So he spoke, and wise Penelope heard him; and
she rebuked the handmaid and spoke, and addressed
he
   “Be sure, thou bold and shameless thing, that thy
outrageous deed isin no wise hid from me, and with
thine own head shalt thou wipe out its stain. Full
well didot thou know, for thou hast heard it from my
own lips, that I was minded to question the stranger
in my halls concerning my husband; for I am sore
distrossed.”
   ‘With this she spoke also to the housewife Eury-
nome, and said: “Eurynome, bring hither a chair
and a fleece upon it, that the stranger may sit down
and tell his tale, and listen to me; for Tamfain to
ask him of all things.”                           235

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_246>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 100-128
    So she spoke, and Burynome speedily      brought a
polished chair and set it in place, and on it cast a
fleece. Then the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus
satdown apon i and the wise Penelope spoke fist,
and said :
    “Stranger, this question will I myself ask thee
first. Who art thou among men, and from whence?
Where is thy city, and where thy parents?”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lady, no one of mortals upon the boundless
‘earth could find fault with thee, for thy fame goes
up to the broad heaven, as does the fame of some
blameless king, who with the fear of the gods in his
heart, is lord’ over many mighty men, upholding
justice; and the black earth bears wheat and barley,
‘and the trees are laden with fruit, the flocks bring
forth young unceasingly, and the sea yields fish, all
from his good leading ; and the people prosper under
him. Wherefore question me now in thy house of
all things else, but ask not concerning my race and
my native land, lest thou fill my heart the more with
pains,asI think thereon; for I am a man of many
sorrows. Moreover it isnot fitting that I should sit
‘weeping and wailing in another's house, for it isill
to grieve ever without ceasing. I would not that one
of thy maidens or thine own self be vexed with me,
and say that I swim in tears because my mind is
heavy with wine.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Stranger,
all excellence of mine, both of beauty and of form,
the immortals destroyed on the day when the Argives
embarked for Ilios, and with them went my husband,
Odysseus. If he might bat come, and watch over
this life of mine, greater would be my fame and fairer.
                                                   237

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_248>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 129-156
Bat now Iam in sorrow, 50 many woes has some god
brought upon me. For all the princes who hold
sway over the islands—Dulichium and Same and
wooded Zacynthus—and those who dwell around in
will, and lay waste my house. Wherefore I pay no
heed to strangers or to suppliants or in any wiseto
heralds, whose trade is a public one; but in longing
for Odysseus Iwastemyheart away. So these men
urge on my marriage, and I wind a skein of wiles.
First some god breatlied the thought in my heart to
set up a great web in ty halls and fall to weaving a
robe—fine of thread was the web and very wides
and Istraightway spoke among them:
   ‘Young men, my wooers, since goodly Odysseus
is dead, be patient, though eager for my marriage,
until I finish this robe—I would notthat my spinning
should come to naught—a shroud for the lord Laertes
against the time when the fell fate of grievous death
shall strike him down ;lest any one ofthe Achaean
women in the land should be wroth with me, if he
were to lie without a shroud, who had won great
possessions.
   “So I spoke, and their proud hearts consented.
Then day by day I would weave at the great web,
but by night would unravel it, when I had let
place torches by me. ‘Thus for three years I kept the
Achaeans from knowing, and beguiled them; but
‘when the fourth year came,asthe seasons rolled on,as
‘the months waned, and the many days were brought
in their course, then verily bythe help of my maidens,
shamelass creatures and reckless, they came upon
me and caught me, and upbraided me loudly. SoI
finished the web against my will perforce. And now
                                                   239

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_250>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 157-183
    Τ can neither escape the marriage nor devise any
    counsel more, and my parents are pressing me to


ἑ
    mary and my gon frets, while these men devour bis
    livelihood, as he takes note of it all; for by now he
    is aman, and fully able to care for a household to
    which Zeus grants honour. Yet even so tell me of
    thy stock from whence thou art; for thou art not
    sprung from an oak of ancient story, or from a
    stone.”?
        Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
    said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
    wilt thou never cease toask me of my linenge? Well,
    I will tell thee ; though verily thou wilt give me over
    to pains yet more than those by which I am now
    held in thrall ;for so it ever is, when a man has been
    far from his country as long as [have now, wandering
    rough the many ities of men in sore dstress
    Yet even so will Itell thee what thou dost                askand
    enquire. There is ἃ land called Crete, in the midst
    of the wine-dark sea, a fair, rich land, begirt with


β
    water, and therein are many men, past counting, and
    ninety cities. They have not ali the same speech,
    ut their tongues are mixed. There dwell Achacans,
    there greathearted native Cretans, there Cydonians,
    and Dorians of waving plumes, and goodly Pelasgians.
    ‘Among their citiesisthe great city Cnosus, where
    ‘Minos reigned when nine years old,? he that held
    converse with great Zeus,andwas fatherof my father,
    great-hearted Deueslion. Now Deucalion begatme
    and prince Idomeneus. Idomeneus had gone forth in
    his beaked ships to Ilios with the sons of Atreus; but
       2 Some ofrender,
    peviods             ls ately,other,
                  nine! yeaa";      "for aking
                                          nine years”
                                                 doris orἀρ * through
                                                              a ound
    Ember, “when he was come to fall maturity.” See the
    note on
                                                                  24x

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_252>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 184-210
 my famous name is Aethon ;I was the younger bj
 birth, while he was the elder and the betterman,
 ‘Ther i was that Τῶν, Odysseus and gave him gis
 of entertainment; for the force of the wind had
 Drought him too to Crete, as he was making for the
 land of Troy, and drove him out of his course past
 Malea. So he anchored his shipsat Amnisus,       whereis
 the cave of Eilithyia, in a dificult harbour, and hardly
‘did he escape the storm. Then straightway he
 went up to the city and asked for Idomeneus, for he
 Aeclared thathe was his frend, beloved and honoured.
 But it was now the tenth or the eleventh dawn since
 Idomeneus hed gone in his beaked ships to Ilios
 So I took him to the house, and gave himentertain
 ment with kindly weleome of the zich store that
 was in the house, and to the rest of his comrades
 who followed ‘with him I gathered and gave out of
 the public store barley meal and flaming wine and
 bulls for secifice, that their hearts might be satisfied.
 There for twelve days the goodly Achaeans tarried,
 for the strong North Wind penned them there, and
 would not suffer them to stand upon their fect on
 the land, for some angry god had roused it. But on
 the thirteenth day the wind fell and they puttosea"
     He spoke, and made the many falsehoods of his
 tale seem like the truth, and as she listened her
 tears fowed and her face melted as the snow melts
 on the lofty mountains, the sow which the East
 Wind thaws when the West Wind bas strewn it,
 and as itmelts the streams of the rivers flow full
 so her fair cheeks. melted aa she wept and mourned
 for her husband, who even then was sitting by her
 side. And Odysseus in his heart had pity for his
 τα
    Ὁ Many take fee  to
                      τ τ
                         mean merely “sid” or “uttered,”
                                                     58

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_254>>>
THE ODYSSRY, XIX. 211-236
weeping wife, but his eyes stood fixed between his
Jids as though they were horn or iron, and with guile
he hid his tears. But she, when she bad had her
fill of tearful wailing, again answered him and spoke,
saying
    “«Now verily, stranger,am I minded to put thee
to the test, whether or no thou didst in very truth
entertain there in thy halls my husband with his
godlike comrades, even as thou sayest. Tell me
what manner of raiment he wore about his body,
and what manner of man he was himself; and tell
me of the comrades who followed him.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Lady, hard is it for one that has been so long
afar to tell thee this, for it is now the twentieth year
since he went thence and departed from my country.
But I will tell thee as my mind pictures him. A
flecy clock of purple did goodly Odysseus west, &
cloak of double fold, but the brooch upon it was
fashioned of gold with double clasps, and on the
front it was curiously wrought: a hound held in his
fore paws α dappled fawn, and pinned it? in his jaws
tit withed. "And at this all'men marvelleg, how,
though they were of gold, the hound was pinning
the fawn and strangling it, and the fawn was writhing
     hits feet and striving to flee. And I noted the
tunic about his body, all shining as is the sheen upon
the skin of a dried onion, so soft it was; and it
glistened like the sun. Verily many women gazed
at him in wonder. And another thing will Itell thee,
and do thou lay it to heart. I know not whether
fn that it means “gazed at” ‘The scboliast gives three
neaningt, ἀοχαύων, Badrar, and ὕλάων, attributed respeot~
ively ἐδ Acatarchus, Crates, and “others.”

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_256>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 237-264
Oaysseus was thus clothed at home, or whether one
ofon His comrades gave him the raimest when he went
     board the swift ship, or haply even some stranger,
since to many men was Odysseus dear, for few of the
Achaeans were his peers. “I, too, gave him a sword
of bronze, and a fair purple cloak’ of double fold, and
ἃ fringed tunic, and with all honour sent him forth
on his benched’ ship. Furthermore, aherald attended
him, a little older than he, and I will tell thee of him.
too, what manner of man he was. He was round-
shouldered, dark of skin, and curly-haired, and his
name was Eurybates; and Odysseus honoured him
above his other comrades, because he was .ike-minded
with himself.”
    So he spoke, and in her heart aroused yet more
the desire of weeping, as she recognized ‘the sure
tokens that Odysseus told her. But she, when she
had had her fill of tearful wailing, made answer and
said to him:
    “Now verily, stranger, though before thou wast
pitied, shalt thou be dear and honoured in my halls,
for it was I that gave him this raiment, since
describest it thus, and folded it, and brought it forth
from the store-room, and added thereto the shining
brooch to be a thing of joy to him. But my husband
I shall never welcome back, returning home to his
dear native land. Wherefore it was with an evil fate
that Odysseus went forth in the hollow ship to see
evil ios, that should never be named.”
    ‘ThenHonoured
said:      Odysseus of many wiles answered hher, and
                     wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
mar not now thyfairface any more, nor waste thy
heart at all in weeping for thy husband. I count it
indeed no blame in thee; for any woman weeps
                                                      247

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_258>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 265-204
when she has lost her wedded husband, to whom
she has borne children in her love, though he were
far other than Odysseus, who, they say, is like unto
the gods. Yet do thou cease from weeping, and
hearken to my words; for I will tell thee with sure
truth, and will hide nothing, how but lately 1 heard
of the return of Odysseus, that he is near at hand
in the rich land of the Thesprotians, and yet alive,
and he isbringing with him many rich treasires,ashe
begs through the land. But he lost his trusty com-
rades and his hollow ship on the wine-dark sea, as
he journeyed from the isle Thrinacia; for Zeus and
Helios waxed wroth against him because his comrades
hhad slain the kine of Helios. So they all perished
in the surging sea, but he on the keel of his ship
‘was cast forth by the wave on the shore, on the land
  f the Phaeacians, who are near of kin to the gods.
  Chese heartily showed him all honour, as if he were
ἃ god, and gave him many gifts, and were fain them-
selves to send him home unseathed. Yea, and Odys-
seus would long since have been here, only it seemed
to his mind more profitable to gather wealth by
roaming over the wide earths so truly does Od;
seus beyond all mortal men know many gainful ways,
nor could any mortal beside vie with him. Thus
 Pheidon, king of the Thesprotians, told me the tale.
 Moreover he swore in my own presence, ashe poured
libations in his halls, that the ship was launched and
the men ready who were to convey him to his dear
native land. But me he sent forth first, for a ship
‘of the Thesprotians    chanced to be setting out for
 Dulichium, rich in wheat. And he showed me all
 the treasure that Odysseus had gathered; verily
unto the tenth generation would it feed his children
                                                   249

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_260>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 295-323
after him, so great was the wealth that lay stored
for him in the halls of the king. But Odysseus, he
said, had gone to Dodona to hear the will of Zeus
from the high-erested oak of the god, even how he
might return to his dear native land after so long an
absence, whether openly or inseeret.
   “Thus,as[tell thee, he is safe, and will presently
come ;he is very near, and not long will he now be
far from his friends and his native land. Yet will I
give thee an oath. Be Zeus my witness first, highest
and best of gods, and the hearth of noble Odysseus
to which Γ am come, that verily all these thins shall
be broughit to pass even as Itell thee. In the course
of this very month shall Odysseus come hither, as
the old moon wanes and the new appears.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Ah, stranger,
I would that this word of thine might be fulfilled.
‘Then shouldest thou straightway know of kindness
and many a gift from me, 80 that one who met thee
would cal thee blessed. "Yet in my heart I forebode
it thus, even as it shall be. Neither shall Odysseus
any more come home, nor shalt thou obtain a convoy
hence, since there are not now in the house such
masters  asOdysseus was among men—as sure as ever
such ἃ man there was—to send reverend strangers
on their way, and to welcome them. But still, my
maidens, wash the stranger's feet and prepare his
bed—bedstead and cloaks and bright coverlets—that
in warmth and comfort he may come to the golden-
throned Dawn. And right early in the moming
bathe him and anoint him, that in our house at the
side of Telemachus he may bethink him of food as
he sits in the hall, And worse shall it be for any
‘man among them who vexes this man’s soul with
                                                  251

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_262>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 324-352
 pain; naught thereafter shall he accomplish here,
 hhow fierce soever his wrath, For how shalt thou
 earn of me, stranger, whetherIin any wise excel
 other women in wit and prudent counsel, if all un-
 Kempt and clad in poor raiment thon sittest at meat
 in my halls? Men are but short-lived. If one be
 himself hard, and have a hard heart, on him do all
 mortal men invoke woes for the time to coine, while
 he still lives, and when he is dead all men mock
 at him, Butifone be blameless and have a blame-
 Tess heart, his fame do strangers bear far and wide
 among all men, and many call him a true man.’
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Lacrtes,
verily cloaks and bright cayerlets became hateful
in my eyes on the day when first I left behind me
the snowy mountains of Crete, as 1 fared on my
Tong-oared ship. Nay, I will lie, as in time past I
‘was wont to rest through sleepless nights; for many
anight have [ lain upon a foul bed and waited for
the bright-throned Dawn. Aye, and baths for the
feet give my heart no pleasure, nor shall any woman
touch my foot of all those who are serving-women
in thy hall, unless there is some old, true-hearted
dame who has suffered in her heart asmany woesasI;
such an one I would not grudge to touch my fect.”*
    Then wise Penelope answered him again: “Dear
stranger, never yet has a man discreet as thou, of
those who are strangers from afar, come to my house
as a more weleome guest, so wise and prudent are
all thy words, I have an old dame with a heart of
                                                  253

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_264>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 353-381
‘understanding in her breast, who lovingly nursed and
cherished my hapless husband, and took him in her
arms on the day when his mother bore him. She
shall wash thy feet, weak with age though she be.
 Come now, wiseEurycleia, arise and wash the feet
of one of like age with thy master. Even such as
 his are now haply the feet of Odysseus, and such his
hands, for quickly do men grow old in evil fortune.”
    So she spoke, and the old woman hid her face in
 her hands and let fall hot tears, uttering words of
lamentation
    “Ah, woe is me, child, because of thee, for that 1
can do’ naught. Surely’ Zeus hated thee above all
men, though thou hadst a god-fearing heart. For
never yet did any mortal burn to Zeus, who hurls
‘the thunderbolt, so many fat thigh-pieces or so many
choice heeatombs as thou gavest him, with prayers
that thou mightest reach ἃ sleek old age and rear
thy gloriousson. But lo, now, from thee alone has he
wholly ent off the day of thy returning. Even thus,
I ween, did women mock at him too,' in a strange
‘and distant land, when he came to some man’s
glorious house, as these shameless creatures here all
mock at thee. It is to shun insult now from them
and their many taunts that thou dost not suffer them
to wash thy fect, but me, who am nothing loath, has
the daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, bidden to
wash thee. Therefore will I wash thy feet, both for
Penelope’s own sake and for thine, for the heart
within me is stirred with sorrow. But come now,
hearken to the word that I shall speak. Many sore-
tried strangers have come hither, but I declare that
never yet have Iseen any man so like another as tho
in form, and in voice, and in feet art like Odysseu:
                                                    255

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_266>>>
‘THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 382-408
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Old dame, so say all men whose eyes have
beheld us two, that we are very like each other, even
as thon thyself dost note and say.”
   So he spoke, and the old dame took the shining
cauldron with’ water wherefiom she was about to
wash his feet, and poured in cold water in plenty,
and then added thereto the warm. But Odysseus sat
him down away from the hearth and straightway
turned himself toward the darkness, for he at once
had a foreboding at heart that, as she touched him,
she might note a scar, and the truth be made manic
fest. 80 she drew near and began to wash her lord,
and straightway knew the scar of the wound which
long ago a boar had dealt him with his white tusk,
when Odysseus had gone to Parnassus to visit Auto-
lycus and the sons of Autolyeus, hismother's noble
  ther, who excelled all men in thievery and in oaths.
Te was a god himself thathad given him this skill, even
Hermes, for'to him he was wont to burn acceptable
sacrifices of the thighs of lambs and kids; so Hermes
befriended him with a ready heart, Now Autolycus,
on coming once to the rich land of Ithaca, had found
his daughter’s son a babe new-born, end when he
was finishing his supper, Eurycleia laid the child
upon his knees and spoke, and addressed hit
     Autolycus, find now thyself ἃ name to give to
thy child’s own child; be sure he has long been
prayed fo
       jen Autolycus answered her, and said: “My
@aughter’s husband and my daughter, give him
whatsoever name I say. Lo, inasmuch as T am
come hither as one that has been angered with
many, both men and women, over the fruitful earth,
                                                    257

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_268>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 409-437
therefore let the mame by which the child is named
be Odysseus. And for my part, when he is a man
grown and comes to the great house of his mother's
kin at Parnassus, where are my possessions, 1will
give him thereof ‘and send him back rejoicing
    Tt was for this reason that Odysseus had come,
that Autolyeus might give him the glorious gifts,
And Autolyeus and the sons of Autolycus clasped
his hands in welcome and greeted him with gentle
words, and Amphithes, his mother’s mother, took
Odysseus in her arms and kissed his head and both
his beautiful eyes. But Autolycus called to his
glorious sons to make ready the meal, and they
hearkened to his call. At once they led in a bull,
five years old, which they flayed and dressed, and
‘cut up all the limbs, Then they sliced these cun-
ningly and pierced them with spits, and roasted them
skilfully and distributed the portions. So,then, all
day long till set of sun they feasted, nor did their
hearts lack aught of the equal feast. 'But when the
‘sun set and darkness came on they lay down to rest
and took the gift of sleep.
   But as soon as early Dawn appeared, the rosy-
fingered, they went forth to the hunt, the hounds
and the sons of Autolycus too, and with them went
goodly Odysseus. Up the steep mountain Parnassus,
clothed with forests, they climbed, and presently
reached its windy hollows. The sun was now just,
striking on the fields, as he rose from softly-gliding,
deep-fowing Oceanus, when the beaters came to a
glade, Before them went the hounds, tracking the
scent, and behind them the sons of Autolycus, and
among these the goodly Odysseus followed, close
        Ὁ Or“Child of Wrath” ;neethe noteon i,62
                                                    259

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_270>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 438-467
 upon the hounds, brandishing his long spear.
  Now thereby a great wild boar was lying in a thick
 lair, through which the strength of the wet winds
 could never blow nor the rays of the bright sun
 beat, nor could the rain pierce through it, so thick
 it was; and fallen leaves were there in plenty. Then
 about the boar there came the noise of the feet of
 men and dogs as they pressed on in the chase, and
 forth from his lair he came against them with bristling
 back and eyes flashing fire, and stood there at bay
 close before them, ‘Then first of all Odysseus rushe
 on, holding his long spear on high in his stout hand,
 eager to smite him} but the boar was too quick for
 him and struck him above the knee, charging upon
 him sideways, and with his tusk tore a long gash in
 the flesh, but did not reach the bone of the man.
 But Odysseus with sure aim smote him on the right
 shoulder, and clear through went the point of the
 bright spear, and the boar fell in the dust with a
 cry, and his life flew from him. Then the dear sons
 of ‘Autolycus busied themselves with the carcase,
and the wound of noble, god-like Odysseus they
 bound up skilfully, and checked the black blood with
ἃ charm, and straightway returned to the house of
their dear father, And when Autolycus and the sons
of Autolycus had fully healed him, and had given
him glorious gifts, they quickly sent him back with
joy to his native land, to Ithaca. Then his father
and his honoured mother rejoiced at his return, and
asked him all the story, how he got his wound; and
he told them all the truth, how, while he was hunting,
‘a boar had struck him with his white tusk when he
hhad gone to Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.
    This sear the old dame, when she had taken the
                                                    261

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_272>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 468-495
limb in the flat of her hands, knew by the touch,
‘and she let fall the foot. Into the basin the leg fell,
    id the brazen vessel rang. Over it tilted, and the
‘water was spilled upon the ground. Then upon her
soul came joy and grief in one moment, and both
her eyes were filled with tears and the flow of
her voice was checked, But she touched the chin of
Odysseus, and said :
    “Verily thou art Odysseus, dear child, and 1 knew
thee not, till I had handled all the body of my
lord.”
    ‘She spoke, and with her eyes looked toward Pene-
lope, fain to show her that her dear husband was at
home. But Penelope could not meet her glance nor
understand, for Athene had turned her thoughts
aside. But Odysseus, feeling for the woman's throat,
seized it with his right hand, and with the other
drew her closer to him, and said:
    “Mother, why wilt thou destroy me? Thou didst
thyself nurse me at this thy breast, and now after
many grievous toils I am come in the twentieth year
to my native Jand. But since thou hast found me
out, and ἃ god has put this in thy heart, be silent
lest any other in the halls learn hereof.” For thus
will I speak out to thee, and verily it shall be
Drought to pass: if agod shall subdue the lordly
weooers unto me, I will not spare thee, my nurse
though thouart, when I slay the other serving-women
in my halls.”
    Then wise Eurycleia answered him: “My child,
what a word has escaped the barrier of thy teeth!
Thon knowest how firm my spit is and unyielding:
       all be as close as hard stone or iron. And an-
other thing will I tell thee, and do thou lay it to
                                                   265

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_274>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 496-524
heart. Ifa god shall subdue the lordly wooers unto
thee,then will I name over totheethe women in thy
halls, which ones dishonour thee, and which are
guiltless.
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Mother, why, pray, wilt thou speak of them?
‘Thou needest not at all. OF myself will I mark them
well, and come to know each one. Nay, keep the
matter to thyself, and leave the issue to the gods.’
     So he spoke, and the old woman went forth
through the hall to bring water for his feet, for all
the first was spilled. And when she had washed him,
and anointed him riebly with ofl, Odysseus again
Arew his chair nearer to the fire to warm himself, and
hid the sear with his rags.
     ‘Then wise Penelope was the first to speak, saying :
Stranger, this little thing forther will I ask thee
myself, for it will soon be the hour for pleasant rest,
for him at least on whom sweet sleep maycome de-
spite his care, But to me has a god given sorrow
thatsis beyond all measure, for day by day I find my
joy in mourning and lamenting, while looking to my
household tasks and those of my women in the
house, but when night comes and sleep lays hold of
all, I'lie upon my bed, and sharp cares, crowding
close about my throbbing heart, disquiet me, as I
mourn. Even as when the daughter of Pandareus,
the nightingale of the greenwood, sings sweetly,
then spring is newly come, ax she tits porcied amd
the thick leafage of the trees, and with many trilling
notes pours forth her rich voice in wailing for her
child, dear Itylus, whom she had one day slain with
    3 Sothe acholiast, ἡ ἐν χλωροῖν διατρίβουσα, Others under-
stand the wordofthe colour of the bird itself
                                                          265,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_276>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 523-548
 thesword unwittingly, Itylas, the son of king Zethus;
 even so my heart sways to and fro in doubt, whether
 to abide with my son and keep all things safe, my
 pessessions, my slaves) and my great, high-rofed
 house, respecting the bed of my          husband and the voice
 of the people, or to go now with him whosoever is
 best of the Achaeans, who woos me in the halls and
 offers bride-gifts past counting. Furthermore my
 son, so long as he was achild and slack of wit, would
 not suffer me to marry and leave the house of my
 husband but now that he is grown and has reached
 the bounds of manhood, 1ο, he even prays me to
{go back again from these halls, being vexed for his
substance that the Achaeans devour to his cost. But
‘come now, hear this dream of mine, and interpret it
 for me. Twenty geese I have in the house that
come forth from the water! and eat wheat, and my
Heart   warms with joy as 1 watch them, βὰν forth
 from the mountain there came a great eagle with
crooked beak and broke all their necks and killed
them; and they lay strewn in a heap in the halls,
while he was borne aloft to the bright sky. Now for
mypart I wept and wailed, in a dream though it was,
and round me thronged the fair-tressed Achaean
women, as I grieved piteously because the eagle had
slain my geese. Then back he came and perched
upon a projecting roof-beam, and with the voice of a
‘mortal man checked my weeping, and said:
    «Be of good cheer, daughter of far-famed Ic
this is a0 dream, but a true vision of good which
shall verily find fulfilment. ‘The geese are the
wooers, and I, that before was the eagle, am now
  2Others take ἐξ ὕδατον closely with πυράν, eat wheat out
of the waler-trough.”"
                                                           267

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_278>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 549-574
 again come back as thy husband, who will let loose
 ἃ eruel doom upon all the wooers.”
    “So he spoke, and sweet sleep released me, and
 looking about TIsaw the geese in the halls, feeding
 on wheat beside the trough, where they had before
 been wont to feed.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her and
said: Lady, in no wise is it possible to wrest this
ream aside and give it another meaning, since verily
 Odysseus himself has shewn thee how he will bring
 ito pass. For the wooers' destruction is plain to see,
 for one and all; not one of them shall escape death
and the fates.”
   ‘Thenwise Penelope answered him again: “Stranger,
reams verily are bailing and unclear of meaning,
and in no wise do they find fulfilment in all things
for men. For two are the gates ofshadowy dreams,
and one is fashioned of horn and one of ivory. Those
dreams that pass through the gate of sawn ivory de-
ceive men, bringing words that find no fulfilment?
But those that come forth through the gate of
polished horn bring true issues to pass, when any
‘mortal sees them. But in my case it wasnotfrom
thence, methinks, that my strange dream came. Ah,
truly it would then have been welcome to me and to
my son. But another thing will I tell thee, and do
thou lay it to heart, Even now is coming’ on this
morn of evil name which is to cut me off from the
house of Odysseus; for now I shall appoint for a con-
test those axes which he was wont tosetup in line
in his halls, like props of a ship that is building,
   ὁ the, "08hpay’ upon
soft                "Boon thetalpays
                               words fect
                                     κίραι, horn"
                                              nad.and χγαίνω,
                                                  ἀλαράφομει
s Guclvy” cannot beproverved fn Bog
                                                         269

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_280>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XIX. 575-599
 twelve in all, and he would stand afar offand shoot
 an arrow through them. Now then I shall set this
‘contest before ‘the wooers: whosoever shall most
 easily string the bow in his hands, and shoot an
arrow through all twelve axes, with him will I go
and forsake this house of my wedded life, a house
‘most fair and filled with livelihood, which, methinks,
 I shall ever remember even in my dreams.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: “Honoured wife of Odysseus, son of Laertes,
no longer now do thou put off this contest in thy
halls; for, I tell thee, Odysseus of many wiles will be
here, ere these men, handling this polished bow,
shall have strung it, and shot an arrow through the
fron.”
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “If thou
couldest but wish, stranger, to sit here in my halls
and give me joy, sleep should never be shed over my
eyelids. Bui it is in no wise possible that men
should forever be sleepless for the immortals have
appointed a proper time for each thing upon the
carth the giver of grain, But I verily will po to my
upper chamber and lay me on my bed, which has
become for me a bed of wailings, ever bedewed with
my tears, since the day when Odysseus went        tosee
evil Nios, that should never be named. There will I
lay me down, but do thou lie down here in the hall,
when thou hast strewn bedding on the floor       ;orlet
the maids set a bedstead for thee.”

tybolrl
Syeenacan soedays); treand (uchlastlyaon
                                     ,     have anμισὴ
                                        that            auvival
                                                   expert archer feo,
                                                                 eos
hoot an placed
‘arofally arrow inchrough
                        Lines aa al    éwelve α ert
                                     thcough      holestheaxes being
                                                    οἱ te,
                                                                an

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_284>>>
BOOK XX
    Bur the         go dly Odysseus lay down to sleep in the
 forethal ofthehouse, On te ground he apreed
 an undressed ox-hide and above it many fleeces of
 sheep, which the Achaeans were wont to slay, and
 Eurynome threw over him a cloak, when he had laid
 him down. There Odysseus, pondering in his heart
 evil for the wooers, lay sleepless. And the women
 came forth from the hall, those that had before been
 wont to lie with the wooers, making laughter and
 merriment among themselves. But the heart was
 stirred in his breast, and much he debated in mind and
 heart, whether he should rush after them and deal
 death to each, or suffer them to lie with the insolent
 wwooers for the last and Intest time; and his heart
 growled within him, And asa bitch stands over her
 tender whelps growling, when she sees a man she
 does not know, and is eager to fight, so his heart
 growled within im in his wrath at their evil deeds;
 Dut he smote his breast, and rebuked his heart,
 saying:
    “Endure, my heart; a worse thing even than this
 dst thou once endure on that day when the Cyclops,
 unrestrained in daring, devoured my mighty com-
 rades; but thou didst endure until craft got thee
 forth from the cave where thou thoughtest to die.”
    So he spoke, chiding the heart in his breast, and
 his heart remained bound? within him to endure
  2Soπείση
rect    the with
            acheliant,  who and
                  πείθομαι, renders by ‘in
                                render  ἐν δεσμοῖν,
                                            obedience,”Otherscon-
                                                             275

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_286>>>
THE ΟΡΥΒΒΕΥ͂, XX. 24-51
 steadfastly;but he himself lay tossing this way and
 ‘that. And as when a manbefore a great blazing fire
 ‘turns swiftly this way and thatapaunch fall of fat and
 blood, and is very eager to have it roasted quickly, so
 Odysseus tossed from side to side, pondering how he
 might put forth hishands upon the shameless wooers,
 fone man as he was against so many. Then Athene
 came down ftom heaven and drew near to him in the
 likeness of awoman, and she stood above his head,
‘and spoke to him, and said:
    “Why now again art thou wakefal, ill-fated above
all men? Lo, this is thy house, and here within is
 thy wife and thy child, such a man, methinks, as any-
‘one might pray to have for his son.”
    And Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said: Yea, goddess, all this hastthou spoken atight.
But the heart in my breast is pondering somewhat
‘upon this, how I may put forth my hands upon the
shameless’ wooers, all alone as I arm, while they re-
main always in a body in the house. And further-
more this other and harder thing I ponder in my
mind: even if I were to slay them by the will of
Zeus and of thyself, where then should 1 find
‘escape from bane? Of this I bid thee take
thought.”
    Then the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, answered
him: Obstinate one, many a man puts his trust
even in a weaker friendthan I am,one that is mortal,
and knows notsuch wisdom as mine; but I am a god,
‘that guard thee to the end in all thy toils. And I
will tell thee openly; if fifty troops of mortal men
should stand about us; eager to slay us in battle,
‘even their cattle and goodly sheep shouldest thou
Grive off. Nay, let sleep now come over thee.
                                                     371

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_288>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 52-79
  There   isweariness also in keeping wakeful watch the
  whole night through ;and even now shalt thou come
  forth from out thy perils.”
     So she spoke, and shed sleep upon his eyelids,but
  herself, the fair goddess, went, back to Olympus.
     ‘Now while sleep seized him, loosening the cares of
 his heart, sleep that loosens ‘the limbs of men, his
 true-hearted wife awoke, and wept, as she sat upon
 her soft bed. But when her heart had had itsllof
 ‘weeping, toArtemis first of all the fair lady made her
 prayer:
     «Artemis, mighty goddess, daughter of Zeus, would
 that now thou wouldest fix thy arrow inmy’ breast
 and take away my life even in this hour; or that ἃ
 storm-wind might catch me up and bear me hence
 over the murky ways, andeastme forth at the mouth
 of backward-flowing Oceanus, even as on a time
 storm-winds bore away the daughters of Pandareus.
 Their perents the gods bad shiny and they were left
      hans in the halls, and fair Aphrodite tended them
 with cheese, and sweet honey, and pleasant wine,
 tnd Here give them beauty and wisdom above all
 women, and chaste Artemis gave them stature, and
 Athene taught them skil in famous handiwork. But
 while beautiful Aphrodite was going to high Olympus
Toaskforthemaidens theaccomplishment of gladsome
 marriage—going to Zeus who hurls the thunderbolt,
 for well he knows all things, both the happiness and
 the haplessness of mortal men—meanwhile the spirits
 of the storm snatched away the maidens and gave
 them to the hateful Erinyes to deal with. Would
that even 80 those who have dwellings on Olympus
 would blot me from sight, or that fair-tressed
           4Othere render to betheir servante.”
                                                     279

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_290>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 80-106
 Artemis would smite me, so that with Odysseus
 before my mind Imight even pass beneath the hateful
 earth, and never gladden in any wise the heart of a
 baser man. Yet when a man weeps by day with a
 heart sore distressed, but at night sleep holds him,
 this brings with it an evil that may well be borne—
 for sleep makes one forget all things, the good and
 the evil, when once it envelops the eyelids—but
‘upon me ἃ god sends evil dreams as well. For this
night again there lay by my side one like him, even
such as he was when he went forth with the host,
and my heart was glad, for Ideemed it was no dream,
but the trath at last.”
    So she spoke, and straightway came golden-throned
Dawn. But as she wept goodly Odysseus heard her
voice, and thereupon he mused, and it seemed to his
heart that she knew him and’ was standing by his
head. Then he gathered up the cloak and the fleeces
on which he was lying and laid them on a chair in
the hall, and carried the ox-hide out ofdoorsand set
it down} and he lifted up his hands and prayed to
Zeus:
    “Father Zeus, if of your good will ye gods have
brought me over land ‘and sea to my own country,
when ye had afficted me sore, let some one of those
who are awaking utter a word of omen for me
within, and without let ἃ sign from Zeus be shown
besides.”
    So he spoke in prayer, and Zeus the counsellor
heard him, Straightway he thundered from gleam-
ing Olympus, from on high from out the clouds; and.
goodly Odysseus was glad. And a woman, grinding
at the mill, uttered a word of omen from within the
house hard by, where the mills of the shepherd of

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_292>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 107-133
thepeople were set. At these mills rylve women
in all were wont to ply their tasks, making meal of
 barley and of wheat, the marrow of men. Now the
others were sleeping, for they had ground their
 wheat, but she alone had not yet ceased, for she
 was the weakest of all. She now stopped her mill
 and spoke a word, a sign for her master :
    “Father Zeus, who art lord over gods and men,
 verily loud hast thou thundered from the starry sky,
yet nowhere is there any cloud: surely this is a sign
 that thou art showing to some man. Fulfil now even
 for wretched me the word that I shall speak.
the   wover this doy forthe last and late tse hold
their glad feast in the halls of Odysseus. They that
 have loosened my limbs with bitter Iabour,as I made
 them besley met, may they now sup their las”
    So she spoke, and goodly Odysseus was glad at
 the word of omen and at the thunder of Zeus, for
 he thought he had gotten vengeance on the guilty.
    ‘Now the other maidens in the fair palace of Odys-
seus had gathered together and were kindling on the
 hearth unwearied fire, and Telemachus rose from his
 bed, a godlike man, and put on his clothing. He
 slung his sharp sword about his shoulder, and beneath
 his shining feet he bound his fair sandals; and he
 took his mighty spear, tipped with sharp bronze, and
 went and stood upon the threshold, and spoke to
 Eurycleia:
    “Dear nurse, have ye honoured the stranger in
courhousewith bed and food, or does he lieall uncared
 for? For such is my mother's way, wise though she
is: in wondrous fashion she honours one of mortal
men, though he be the worse, while the better she
 sends unhonoured away.”
    x                                             283

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_294>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 134-163
      Then wise Eurycleia answered him: “In this
 matter, child, thou shouldest not blame her, who
 is without blame, He sat here and drank wine as
 long as he would, but for food he said he had no
 more hunger, for she asked him, But when he be-
 thought him of rest and sleep, she bade the maidens
 strew his bed. But he, as one wholly wretched and
hapless, would not sleep ona bed and under blankets,
 but on an undressed ox-hide and fleeces of sheep he
 slept in the fore-hall, andweflung over him a cloak.”
       0 she spoke, and ‘Telemachus went forth through
 the hall with hhisspear in his hand, and with him
 went two swift hounds. And he went his way to the
 place of assemblytojoin the company of the well-
 greaved Achaeans, but Eurycleia, the goodly lady,
 daughter of Ops, son of Peisenor, called to her
 maidens, saying:
      “Come, let some of you busily sweep the hall
 and sprinkle it, and throw on the shapely chairs
 coverlets of purple, and let others wipe all the tables,
 with sponges and cleanse the mixing-bowls and the
 well-wrought double cups, and others still go to the
spring for water and bring it quickly here. For the
 ‘wooers will not long be absent from the hall,but wi
 return right early; for itis a feast-day for all men.’
      So she spoke, and they readily hearkened and
obeyed. Twenty of them went to the spring of
dark water, and the others busied themselves
in the house in skilful fashion,
   “Then in came the serving-men of the Achaeans,
who thereafter split logs of wood well and skilfully;
and the women came back from the spring. After
them came the swineherd, driving three boars which
were the best in all his herd. ‘These he let be to
                                                     285

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_296>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 164-r90
 feed in the fair courts, but himself spoke to
 Odysseus with gentle words:
    “Stranger, do the Achacans look on thee with any
 more regard, or do they dishonour thee in the halls
 as before?”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
 said: “Ah, Eumaeus, I vould that the gods might
 take vengeance on the outrage wherewith these men
 in wantonness devise wicked folly in another's house,
 and have no place for shame.”
    Thus they spoke to one another. And near to
 them came Melanthius the goatherd, leading sh
goats that were the best in all the herds, to make a
 feast for the wooers, and two herdsmen followed
 with him, The goats he tethered beneath the
echoing portico, and himself spoke to Odysseus with
 taunting words:
      Stranger, wilt thou even now still be a plague to
us here in the hall, asking alms of men, and wilt
thou not begone? "'Tis plain, methinks, that we
two shall not part company till we taste one δὶ
other's fists, for thy begging is in no wise decent,
Also it is not here alone that there are feasts of the
‘Achaeans.”
    So he spoke, but Odysseus of many wiles made
no answer, but he shook his head in silence, ponder-
ing evil in the deep of his heart.
   ‘Besides these «third man exe, Philoetiu,aleader
of men, driving for the wooers a barren heifer and
fat she-goats. These had been brought over from
the mainland by ferrymen, who send other men, too,
on their way, whosoever comes to them. ‘The beasts
he tethered carefully beneath the echoing portico, but
himself came close to the swineherd and questioned
him, saying:                                        τὰ;

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_298>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 191-217
   “Who is this stranger, swincherd, who has newly
come to our house? From whatmen does he declare
 himself to be sprung? Where are his kinsmen and
his native fields? Hapless man! Yet troly          inform
he is like ἃ royal prince; howbeit the gods bring
to misery far-wandering men, whenever they spin for
them
  sagethe threads of rouble, even though they be
   ‘Therewith he drew near to Odysseus, and stretch-
ing forth his right hand in greeting, spoke and
addressed him with winged words:
   ‘Hall, Sir stranger ; may happy fortune be thine in
time to come, though now thou art the thrall of
many sorrows | Father Zeus, no other god is more
baneful than thou; thou hast no pity on men when
thou hast thyself given them birth, but bringest
them into misery and wretched pains. The sweat
broke out on me when 1 marked the man, and
my eyes are full of tears as I think of Odysseus; for
he, too, I ween, is clothed in such rags and is a
wanderer among men, if indeed he still lives and
Deholds the light of the sun. But if he isalready
dead and in the house of Hades, then woe is me for
blameless Odysseus,   whoset me over his cattle, when
I was yet a boy, in the land of the Cephallénians
‘And now these Wax past counting; in no other wise
could the breed of broad-browed cattle yield better
increase! for a mortal man. But strangers bid me
rive these now for themselves to eat, and they care
nothing for theson in the house, nor do they tremble
at the wrath of the gods, for they are eager now to
divide among themselves the possessions of our lord
that bas long been gone. Now, as for myself, the
    3The Greek word refers properly to ripening grain.
                                                       289

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_300>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 218-244
 heart in my breast keeps revolving this matter: a
 very evil thing it is, while the son lives, to depart
along with my cattle and go toa land of strangers,
 even to an alien folk; but this isworse still, to re-
‘main here and suffer woes in charge of cattle that
are given over to others. Aye, verily, long ago would
 T have fled and come to some otlier of the proud
kings, for now things are no more to be borne; but
still I think of that hapless one, if perchance he
might come back I know not whence, and make a
scattering of the wooers inhis house.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Nentherd, since tho seemest to be neither
an evil man nor a witless, and I see for myself that
thou hast gotten an understanding heart, therefore
will I speak out and swenr great oath to confirm
my words, Now be my witness Zeus above all gods,
and this hospitable board, and the hearth of noble
Odysseus to which I am come, that verily while thou
art here Odysseus shall come home, and thou shalt
see with thine eyes, if thou wilt, the slaying of the
‘wooers, who lord it here.””
    Then the herdsman of the cattle answered him:
«Ah, stranger, I would that the son of Cronos might
fulfi’'this word of thine!   ‘Then shouldest thou know
what manner of might is mine, and how my hands
obey.”
    ‘And even in like manner did Eumaeus pray to
allthe gods that wise Odysseus might come back to
  is own home.
    Thus they spoke to one another, but the wooers
meanwhile were plotting death and fate for Tele-
machus ;howbeit there came to them a bird on their
left, an eagle of lofty fight, clutching a timid dove,
‘Then Amphinomus spoke in thefr assembly, and said :
                                                    29.

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_302>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 245-72
    “Friends, this -plan of ours will not ran to our
 liking, even the slaying of Telemachus ;nay, let us
 bethink us of the feast.”
    So spoke Amphinomus, and his word was pleasing
 to them. Then, going into the house of godlike
Odysseus, they laid their cloaks on the chairs and
hhigh seats, and men fell toslaying great sheep and
fat goats, aye, and fatted swine, and the heifer of
the herd.” Then they roasted the entrails andserved
them out, and mixed wine in the bowls, ‘md the
swincherd handed out the cups. And Philoetius, a
leader of men, handed them bread in a beautiful
basket, and Melanthius poured them wine. So they
put forth their hands to the good cheer lying ready
before them.
    But Telemachus, with crafty thought, made Odys-
seus sit within the well-built hall by the threshold
ofstone, and placed for him a mean stool and a little
table. Beside him he set portions of the entrails
and poured wine in a cup of gold, and said to
him:
                         among the lords and drink thy
                     ings and blows of all the wooers
will I myself ward from thee; for this is no public
resort, but the house of Odysseus, and it was for me
that he won it, And for your part, ye wooers, refrain
your minds from rebukes and blows, tht no strife
Ὅτ quarrel may arise,’
    So he spoke, and they all bit their lips and mar-
velled   st Telemachus for that he spoke belly; and
Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke among them,
saying:
    ἐς Hard tnough it be, Achaeans, let us accept the
word of Telemachus, though boldly he threatens
                                                   393

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_304>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 273-299
us in his speech. For Zeus, son of Cronos, did not
suffer it, else would we ere now have silenced him
in the halls, elear-voiced talker though he
    So spoke Antinous, but Telemachus paid no heed
tohis words. Meanwhile the heralds were leading
through the city the holy hecatomb of the gods, and
the long-haired Achaeans gathered together beneath
ἃ shady grove of Apollo, the archer-god.
    Bat when they had roasted the outer flesh and
drawn it off the spits, they divided the portions and
feasted a glorious feast. And by Odysseus those who
served set a portion equal to that which they re-
ceived themselves, for so Telemachus commanded,
the dear son of divine Odysseus.
    But the proud wooers Athene would in no wise
suffer to abstain from bitter outrage, that pain might
sink yet deeper into the heart of Odysseus, son of
Laertes. There was among the wooers a man with
hhis heart set on lawlessness—Ctesippus was his name,
and in Same was his dwelling—who, trusting for.
sooth in hisboundless wealth, wooed the wife of
‘Odysseus, that had long been gone. He it was who
now spoke among the haughty wooers:
    “ρα me, ye proud wooers, that I may say some-
what. A portion has the stranger Iong had, an equal
portion, as is meet ; for it is not well nor just to rob
of their due the guests of Telemachus,’ whosoever
he be that comes to this house. Nay, come, I too
will give him ἃ stranger’s-gift, that he in turn may
give a present either fo the bath-womanorto some
other of the slaves who are in the house of godlike
Odysseus.”
     0 saying, he hurled with strong hand the hoof of
                                                    295

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_306>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 300-327
‘an ox, taking it up from the basket where it lay.
But Odysseus avoided it with a quick turn of his
head, and in his heart he smiled ἃ right grim and
bitter smile; and the ox’s hoof struck the well-built
wall. ‘Then Telemachus rebuked Ctesippus, and said:
   “ Ctesippus, verily this thing fell out more to thy
soul's prot." Thou didetnot smite the stranger, for
he himself avoided thy missile, else surely would 1
have struck thee through the middle with my sharp
spear, and instead of a wedding feast thy father
‘would have been busied with a faneral feast in this
land. Wherefore let no man, I warn you, make a
show of frowardness in my house; for now 1 mark
and understand all things, the good and the evil,
whereas heretofore I was but a child. But none the
less we still endure to see these deeds, while sheep
are slaughtered, and wine drunk, and breed con-
sumed, for hard’ it is for one man torestrain many.
Yet come, no longer work me harm of your evil
wills, But if you are minded even now to slay me
myself with the sword, even that would I choose,
and it would be better far to die than continually to
behold these shameful deeds, strangers mishandled
and men dragging the handmaidens in shameful
fashion through the fair hall.”
   So he spoke, and they were all hushed in silence,
Dut at last there spoke among them Agelaus, son
of Damastor:
   “Friends, no man in answer to what has been
fairly spoken would wax wroth and make reply with
wrangling words, Abuse not any more the stranger
nor any of the slaves that are in the house of divine
Odysseus. But to Telemachus and his mother I
would speak a gentle word, if perchance it may find
                                                   391

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_308>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 328-352
favour in the minds of both. So longasthe hearts
ἴα your breasts had hope that wise Odysseur would
return to his own house, so long there was no
ground for blame that you waited, and restrained
the wooers in your halis; for this was the better
course, had Odysseus returned and come back to his
house. But now this is plain, that he will return no
‘more. Nay then, come, sit by thy mother and tell
her this, namely that she must wed him whosoever is
the best man, and who offers the most gifts; to the
‘end that thou mayest enjoy in peace all the heritage
of thy, fathers, eating and drinking, and that she
may keep the house of another.””
   ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Nay, by
Zeus, Agelans, and by the woes of my father, who
somewhere far from Ithaca has perished or is wan-
dering, in no wise do I delay my mother's marriage,
but Ibid her wed what man she will, and I offer
besides gifts past counting. But I am’ ashamed to
rive her forth from the hall against her will by a
word of compulsion. May God never bring such a
thing to pass.
   So spoke Telemachus, but among the wooers
Pallas Athene roused unquenchable laughter, and
turned their wits awry. And now they laughed with
alien lips, and all bedabbled with blood was the flesh
they ate,! and their eyes were filled with tears and
their spirits set on wailing. ‘Then among them
spoke godlike Theoclymenus:
   “Ah, wretched men, what evil is this that you
suffer?’ Shrouded in night areyour heads and your
faces and your knees beneath you; kindled is the
angus dnd
aah   and denttetion,
           folk-pctry of various peoples as indicative of
                                                     299

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_310>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 353-380
sound of wailing, bathed in tears are your cheeks,
and sprinkled with blood are the walls and the fair
rafters. And full of ghosts is the porch and full the
court, of ghosts that hasten down to Erebus beneath
‘the darkness, and the sun has perished out of heaven
and an evil mist hovers over all.”
   So he spoke, but they all laughed merrily at him,
And among them Eurymachus, son of Polybus, was
the first to speak:
   “Mad is the stranger that has newly come from
abroad. Quick, ye youths, convey him forth out of
doors to go his way to the place of assembly, since
here he finds it like night.”
   Then godlike Theoclymenus answered him:
“Burymachus, in no wise do I bid thee give me
guides for my way. I have eyes and ears and my
tyro feet, anda mind in. my Breast that is in no wise
meanly fashioned. With these will I go forth out of
doors, for I mark evil coming upon you which not one
of the wooers may escape or avoid, of all you who
in the house of godlike Odysseus insult men and
devise wicked folly.’
   So saying, he went forth from the stately halls
and came to Piraeus, who received him with a ready
heart. But all the wooers, looking at one another,
sought to provoke Telemachus by laughing at
‘guests. And thus would one of the proud youtis
speak:
 PeTelemachus, no wan is more unlucky in his
   sts than thou, seeing that thou keepest such a
ity vageboad ce thisman‘here, alweye wanting
bread and wine, and skilled neither in the works of
peace nor those of war, but a mere burden of the
earth, And this other fellow again stood up to
                                                  301

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_312>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XX. 381-394
prophesy. Nay, if thou wouldst hearken to me it
would be better far: letusfling these strangers on
board a benched ship, and send them to the Sici-
lians, whenee they would           bring? thee ina fitting
price.
    So spake the wooers, but he paid no heed to
their words. Nay, in silence he watched his father,
ever waiting until he should pat forth his hands
upon the shameless wooers,
    Bat the daughter of earius, wise Penelope, had
set her beautiful chair over against them, and heard
‘the words of each man in the hall. For they had
made ready their meal in the midst of their laughing,
ἃ sweet meal, and one to satisfy the heart, for they
had slain many beasts. But never could meal have
been more graceless than a supper such as a goddess
and a mighty man were soon to set before them, For
unprovoked they were contriving deeds of shame.
   αιἄλφοιν (he,ἀλφοιον) is κα
plural     veroἐκGamanted by th
ξείνου in ine $82 to τὸρ ξεῖνον, Ib acems impossible to
Ssmame "the slo” an subject to ἔλφοι.




                                                     303

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_314>>>
BOOK      XXI

    Bor the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, put it
 into the heart of ‘the daughter of Icarius, wise
 Penelope, to set before the wooers in the halls of
 Odysseus the bow and the gray iron, to be a contest
 and the beginning of death. She climbed the high
stairwaytoher chamber, and took the bent key in her
strong hand—a goodly key of bronze, and on it was
a handle of ivory. And she went her way with her
 handmaidens to a store-room, far remote, where lay
the treasures of her lord, bronze and gold and iron,
 wrought with toil. And there lay the back-bent
bow and the quiver that held the arrows, and many.
arrows were in it, fraught with groanings—gifts
which a friend of Odysseus had given him when
he met him onee in Lacedaemon, even Iphitus, son of
Eurytus, a man like unto the immortals. They two
had’ met one another in Messene in the house of
wise Ortilochus. Odysseus verily had cometocollect
‘a debt which the whole people owed him, for the
men of Messene had lifted from Ithaca in their
benched ships three hundred sheep and the shep-
herds with them. It was on an embassy in quest of
these that Odysseus had come a far journey, while he
was but a youth for his father and the other elders
hed sent Rim forth, And Tphitus, on his'pact, had
‘comein search of twelve brood mares, which he had
Jost, with sturdy mules at the teat; but to him
                                                 305

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_316>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 24-47
thereafter did they bring death and doom, when he
came to the stout-hearted son of Zeus, ‘the man
Heracles, who well knew? deeds of daring; for
Heracles slew him, his guest though he was, in his
‘own house, ruthlessly, and had regard neither for
the wrath of the gods nor for the table which he
had set before him, but slew the man thereafter, and
himself Kept the’ stout-hoofed mares in his halls.
 Tt was while asking for these that, Iphitus met
Odysseus, and gave him the bow, which of old great
Eurytus had been wont to bear, and had leftathis
death to his son in his lofty house. And to Iphitus
Odysseus gave a sharp sword and a mighty spear, as
the beginning of loving friendship ;yet they never
knew one another at the table, for ere that might
be the son of Zeushad slain Iphitus, son of Eurytus,
‘aman like unto the immortals, who gave Odysseus
‘the bow. This bow goodly Odysseus, when going
forth τὸ war, would never take with’ him on the
black ships, but it lay in his halls athome as a
memorial of a dear friend, and he carried it in his
own land.
    Now when the fair lady had come to the
store-room, and had stepped upon the threshold of
‘oak, which of old the carpenter had skilfully planed
and made straight tothe line—thereon had he also
fitted door-posts, and set on them bright doors—
straightway she quickly loosed the thong? from the
handle and thrust in the key, and with sure aim shot

‘wasforced back bythe key, which prosumably fitted the elit
 in the bolt with nieety ; hele the phrase “with sure air.”
                                                          37

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_318>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 48-79
 ack the bolts, And as a bull bellows when grazing
 inameadow, even so bellowed the fair doors, smitten
 by the key} and quickly they flew open before her.
 Then she stepped upon the high floor, where the
 chests stood in which fragrant raiment was stored,
 and stretched out her hand from thence and took
 from its peg the bow together with the bright case
 which surrounded it. And there she sat down and
 laid the case upon her knees and wept aloud, and
 took out the bow of her lord. But when she had
 had her fil of tearful wailing, she went her way to
 the hall, to the company of the lordly wooers,
 bearing in her hands the back-bent bow and the
 quiver that held the arrows, and many arrows were
 in it, fraught with groanings. And by her side her
maidens bore a chest, wherein lay abundance of iron
and bronze, the battlegear of her lord. Now
 when the fair lady reached the wooers, she stood
by the door-post of the well-built hall, holdin,
before her face her shining veil; and a faithful hand-
‘maid stood on either side of her. Then straightway
she spoke among the wooers, and said
    “Hear me, ye proud wovers, who have beset this
house to eat and drink ever without end, since its
master has long been gone, nor could you find any
other plea to urge, save only asdesiringtowed me
and take me to wife, Nay, come now, ye wooers,
sincethisisshewn to be your prize. I will set before
you the great bow of divine Odysseus, and whosoever
Shall most easily string the bow in his hands and
shoot an arrow through all twelve axes, with him
will I go, and forsake this house of my wedded life,
ἃ house most fair and filled with livelihood, which,
methinks I shall ever remember even in my dreams.”
         Ὁ. She means herself, not the bow jφῇ 108.
                                                    309

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_320>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 80-110
    So she spoke, and bade Eumaens, the goodly swine-
 herd, set for the wooers the bow and the grey iron,
 ‘And, bursting into tears, Eumacus took them and
 hid them down, and in another place the neatherd
 rept, when hesaw the bowof hislord. ‘Then Antinons
 rebuked them, andspoke, and addressed them:
    «Foolish boors, who mind only the things of the
 day! Wretched pair, why now do you shed tears,
 and trouble the soulin the breast of ‘the lady, whose
 heart even as it is lies low in pain, seeing that she
hhas lost her dear husband? Nay, sit and feast in
silence, or else go forth and weep, and leave the bow
here behind as a decisive? contest for the woocrs ;
for not easily, methinks, is this polished bow to be
strung. For there is no man among all these here
such asOdysseus was, and 1 myself saw him. For 1
remember him, though I was still but a child.”
    So he spoke, but the heart in his breast hoped that
he would string the bow and shoot an arrow through.
the iron. Yet verily he was to be the firsttotaste
of an arrow from the hands of noble Odysseus, whom.
then he, as he sat in the halls, was dishonouring, and
urging on all his comrades.
    ‘Then among them spoke the strong and mighty
Telemachus :“ Lo now, ofa truth Zeus, son of Cronos,
has made me witless. "My dear mother, for all that
she is wise, declares that she will follow another lord,
forsaking this house; yet I laugh, and am glad with
‘a witless mind. Come then, ye wooers, since this
is shewn to be your prize, a lady, the like ofwhom is,
not now in the Achaean land, neither in sacred Pylos,
nor in Argos, nor in Mycene, nor yet in Ithaca itself,
nor in the dark mainland, 'Nay, but of yourselves
you know this—what need have I to praise my
  Ὁ Others render “deadly”or “terrible” ; but t80 Monro.
                                                      3m

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_322>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 111-136
 mother? Come then, put not the matter aside with
 ‘excuses, nor any more turn away too long from the
 drawing of the bow, that we may see the issue. Yea,
 and I would myself make trial of yon bow. If T
shall string it and shoot an arrow through the iron,
 it will not vex me that my honoured mother should
 leave this house and go along with another, seeing
that I should be left here able now to wield the
goodly battle-gear of my father.”
    With this he flung the scarlet cloak from off his
ack, and sprang up erect; and he laid his sharp
sword from of his shoulders, First then he set. up
the axes, when he had dug a trench, one long trench
for all, and made it straight to the line, and about
them ‘he stamped in the earth. And amazement
seized all who saw him, that he set them out so
orderly, though before he had never seen them.
Then he went and stood upon the threshold, and
began to try the bow. Thrice he made it quiver in
 his eagerness to draw it, and thrice he relaxed his
effort, though in his heart he hoped to string the
bow and shoot an arrow through the iron. And now
at the last he would haply have strung it in his
might, asfor the fourth time he sought to draw up
the string, but Odysseus nodded in dissent, and
checked him in his eagerness. Then the strong and
mighty Telemachus spoke among them again :
    Out on it, even in days to come shall I be a
coward and a weakling, or else I am too young, and
have not yet trust in my might to defend'me against
a man, wien one waxes wroth withoutacause. But,
come now, you that are mightier than I, make trial
of the bow, and let us end the contest.”
   So saying, he set the bow from him on the ground,
                                                 315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_324>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 137-163
leaning it against the jointed, polished door, and hard
by he leaned the swift arrow against the fair bow-
and then sat down again on the seat from which he
had risen.
   Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, spoke among
them: “Rise up in order, all you of our company,
from left to right, beginning from the place where
the cupbearer pours the wine.”
   So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
them, Then first arose Leiodes, son of Oenops,
who vas their soothsayer, and ever sat by the fair
mixing-bowl in the innermost part of the hall;
deeds of wanton fully were hateful to him alone,
and he was full of indignation at all the wooers.
He it was who now first took the bow and swift
arrow, and he went and stood upon the threshold,
and began to try the bow; but he could not string
it. Ere that might be his hands grew weary, as he
sought to draw up the string, his unworn delicate
hands; and he spoke among the wooers: =
   “Friends, it is not I that shall string it; let
another take it, For many princes shall this bow
rob of spirit and of life, since verily it is better far
to die than to live on and fail of that for the sake
of which we ever gather here, waiting expectantly
day after day. Now many a man even hopes in his
heart and desires to wed Penelope, the wife of
Odysseus; but when he shall have made trial of the
bow, and seen the outcome, thereafter let him woo
some other of the fair-robed Achaean women with
his gifts, and seck to win her; then should Penelope
wed   him who offers most, and who comes as her
fated lord.”
   So he spoke, and set the bow from him, leaning it
     L                                               315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_326>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 164-192
against the jointed, polished door, and hard by he
leaned the swift arrow against the fair bow-tip, and
then sat down on the seat from which he had risen.



mother did not bear thee of such’ strength as to
draw a bow and shoot arrows; but others of the
lordly wooers will soon string it.”
   So he spoke, and called to Melanthins, the
goatherd: ‘Come now, light a fire in the’ hall,
Melanthius; and set by it great seat with a fleece
upon it, and bring forth a great cake of the fat that
is within, that we youths may warm the bow, and
anoint it with fat, and so make trial of it, and end
the contest.”
             ke, and Melanthius straightway rekindled
                 fire, and brought and placed by it a
     stseat with a’ fleece upon it, and he brought
 forth a great cake of the fat that was within.
‘Therewith the youths warmed the bow, and made
trial of it, but they could not string it, for they
were far lacking in strength.
   Now Antinous was still persisting and          godlike
Rorymuchos, leer of thewoven who were τὸ
the best in valiance ;but those other two had gone
forth both together from the hall, the neatherd and
the swineherd of divine Odysseus; and after them
Odysseus himself went forth from the house, But
when they were now outside the gates and the court,
he spoke and addressed them with gentle words:
                                                  317

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_328>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 193-220
   “Neatherd, and thou too swineherd, shall I tell
you something or keep it tomyself? Nay, my spirit
bids me tell it. What manner of men would you be
to defend Odysseus, if he should come from’ some-
where thus suddenly, and some god should bringhim?
Would you bear aid to the wooers or to Odysseusὃ
Speak out as your heart and spirit bid you.”
   Then the herdsmen of the eattle answered him :
“Father Zeus, oh that thou wouldest. fulfil this
wish! Grant that that man may come back, and
that some god may guide him. Then shouldest
thou know what manner of might is mine, and how
my hands obey.”
   ‘And even in like manner did Eumacus pray to all
the gods that wise Odysseus might come back to his
‘own home,
   Butwhenhe knew with certainty      themindofthese,
he made answer, and spoke to them again, saying:
   © At home now in truth am I here before you, my
very self, After many grievous toils I am come in
the twentieth year to my native land. And I know
that by you two alone of all my thralls is my coming
desired, but ofthe rest have I heard not one praying
that I might come back again to my home. But to
you two will I tell the truth, even as it shallbe. If
ἃ god shall subdue the lordly wooers unto me, I will
bring you each     wife, and will give you possessions
and a house built near my own, and thereafter you
two shall be in my eyes friends and brothers of Tele-
machus. Nay, come, more than this, I will shew you
also a manifest sign, that you may know me well and
be assured in heart, even the sear of the wound which
long ago a boar dealt me with his white tusk, when
I went to Parnassus with the sons of Autolycus.’
                                                   319

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_330>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 221-248
   So saying, he drew aside the rags from the great
sear, And when the two had seen it, and bad
marked each thing well, they flung their arms about
tviso Odysseus, and wept and they Kissed his: head
and shoulders inloving welcome. And even in like
manner”   Odysseus Kissed their heads snd. hands.
‘And now the light of the sun would have gone down
tpon thelrthem,weeping,
checked          and et had not γιοῦ hlmecl?
   “Cease now from weeping and wailing, lest some
one  come forth from the hal and see us, sad make tt
known within as well. But go within one after
another, not all together, I first and you thereafter,
and let this be madeasign. All the rest, as many
as are lordly wooers, will not suffer the bow and the
quiver to be given to me; but do thou, goodly
place 8 Ἰὰ my hands, and bid the women bar the
‘Eumaeus, as thou bearest the bow through the halls,

 Elose-fiting doors of their hall. And if any one of
‘them hears groanings or the din of men within
oor    walls, lof them not rash out, but remain where
they are in silence at their work. But to thee,
goodly Philoetius, do I give charge to fasten with a
 bur the gate of the court, and swiftly to cast a cord
‘upon it.”
     So saying, he entered the stately house, and went
‘And     ‘the two slives of divine Odysseus went in es
and sat down on the seat from               which he had risen.

wel‘Eurymachus          was now handling the bow, warming
stbutonnotthisevenideso andwas onhe that in the light of the firey
                                     able to string it; and in his
poble heart be grosned, and witha barat of anger he
spoke and addressed them :
                                                             321

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_332>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 249-275
    “Out on it! Verily I am grieved for myself and
foryou all. ΤῈ is in no wise for the marriage that 1
 mourn so greatly, grieved though I am; for there
 are many other Achaean women, some in sea-girt
 Ithacaitself,and some in other cities ;but I mourn
 if in truth We fall so far short of godlike Odysseus
 in might, seeing that we cannot string his bow.
 This is ἃ reproach for men that are yet to be to
 hear of.”
    Then Antinous, son of Eupeithes, answered him :
 “ Eurymachus, this shall not   beso,and thou of thyself
too knowest it. For to-day throughout the land is
 the feast of the god'—a holy feast. Who then
 would bend a bow? Nay, quietly set it by; and as
 for the axes—what if we should let them all stand as,
 they are? Noman, methinks, will come to the hall
“of Odysseus, son of Laertes, and carry them off.
 Nay, come, let the bearer pour drops for libation into
‘thecups, that we may pour libations, and lay aside
 the curved bow. And in themorning bid Melanthfus,
 the gontherd, to bring she-goate, far the best in all
 the herds, that we may lay thigh-pieces on the altar
 of Apollo, the famed archer; and so make trial of the
 bow, and end the contest.”
    So spoke Antinous, and his word was pleasing to
 them. Then the heralds poured water over their
 hands, and youths filled the bowls brim full of drink,
 and served out to al, pouring fist drops for bation
 into the cups. But when they had poured libations,
 and had drunk to their heart’s content, then with
 grafty mind Odysseus of many wiles spoke among
 them:
    Hear me, wooers of the glorious queen, that I
          A ie. ofApollo, thearcher-gods of: 1. 257.
                                                     313

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_334>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 276-302
 may say what the heart in my breast bids me, To
 Eurymachus most of all do Imake my prayer, and
to godlike Antinous, since this word also of his was
spoken aright, namely that for the present you cease
to try the bow, and leave the issue with the gods ;
and in the moming the godwillgive the vietory to
whomsoever he will, But come, give me the polished
bow, that in your midst 1 may’ prove my hands and
strength, whether I have yet might such as was of
old in my supple limbs, or whether by now my
wanderings and lack of food have destroyed it.”
   So he spoke, and they all waxed exceeding wroth,
fearing lest he might string the polished bow. And
Antinous rebuked him, and spoke and addressed
him:
   “Ah, wretched stranger, thou hast no wit, no, not
a trace. Art thou not content that thou feastest
undisturbed in our proud company, and lackest
naught of the banquet, but hearest our words and
our speech, while no other that is a stranger and
beggar hears our words? It is wine that wounds thee,
honey-sweet wine, which works harm to others too,
if one takes it in great gulps, and drinks beyond
measure. It was wine that made foolish even the
centaur, glorious Eurytion, in the hall of great
hearted Peirithous, when he went to the Lapithae;
and when his hearthad been made foolish with wine,
in his madness he wrought evil in the house of Pei
thous. Then grief seized the heroes, and they les
up and dragged him forth through the gateway,
when they had shorn offhisears and his nostrils with
the pitiless bronze, and he, made foolish in heart,
went his way, bearing with him the curse of his sin
in the folly of his heart, From hence the feud arose
                                                 3:5

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_336>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 303-332
 between the centaurs and mankind; but it was for
   imself first that he found evil, being heavy with
 wine. Even so do I declare great harm for thee, if
 thou shalt string the bow, for thou shalt meet with
 no kindness at the hands of anyone in our land, but
we will send thee straightway in black ship to king
 Echetus, the maimer of all men, from whose hands
‘thou shalt in no wise escape alive. Nay, then, be
still, and drink thy wine, and do not strive with men
younger than thou.’
    ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “ Antinous,
it is not well nor just to rob of their due the guests
of Telemachus, whosoever he be that comes to this
house. Dost thou think that, if yon stranger strings
the great bow of Odysseus, trusting in his strength
and his might, he will lead me to his home, and
make me his wife? Nay, he himself, I ween, has
not this hope in his breast; so let no one of you on
this account sit at meat here in sorrow of heart;
nay, that were indeed unseemly.”
    Then Eurymachus, son of Polybus, answered her:
“Daughter of Icarius, wise Penelope, it is not that
we think the man will lead thee to his home—that
were indeed unseemly—but that we dread the talk of
men and women, lest hereafter some base fellow
among the Achaeans should say: «Truly men weaker
far are wooing the wife of a noble man, and cannot
string his polished bow. But another, a beggar, that
came on his wanderings, easily strung the bow, and
shot through the iron.’ Thus will men speak, but
to us this would become a reproach.”
   Then wise Penelope answexed him again: “ Eury-
‘machus, in no wise can there be good reportinthe
land for men who dishonour and consume the house
                                                   327

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_338>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 333-359
of prince. Why then do you make this matter?
ἃ reproach? This stranger is right tall and well-
 uilt;.and declares himself to be born the son of a
good father. Nay, come, give him the polished bow
find let us see. For thus will I speak out to thee,
nd this word shallverily be brought to pass; if he
shall string the bow, and Apollo grant him glory, I
 will clothe him with'a close     andἐμεῖο, fir raiment,
and will give him a sharp javelin to ward off dogs
 and men, and a two-edged sword; and I will give
him sandals to bind beneath his feet, and will
send him whithersoever his heart and ‘spirit bid
him go.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered her: “My
mother, as for the bow, no man of the Achaeans has
a better right than I to giveorto deny it to whom-
soever I will—no, not all those who lord it in
rocky Ithaca, or in’the islands towards horse-pastur-
ing Elis. No man among these shall thwart me
against my will, even though I should wish to give
this bow outright to the stranger to bear away with
him, But do thou go to thy chamber, and busy
thyself with thine own tasks, the loom and the distaf,
and bid thy handmaids ply’ their tasks. ‘The bow
shall be for men, for all, but’ most of all for me;
     ice mine is the authority in the house.”
    She then, seized with wonder, went back to her
chamber, for she laid to heart the wise saying of her
son, Up      toher upper chamber she went with her
handmaids, and then bewailed Odysseus, her dear
husband, until lashing-eyed Athene cast sweet sleep
upon her eyelids.
   ‘Now the goodly swineherd had taken the curved
    +} ke, that the stranger should handle the bow.
                                                    329

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_340>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXI. 360-387
 bow and was bearing it, but the wooers all cried out
 in the halls. And thus would one οἱ the proud
youths speak :
    * Whither, pray, art thou beating the curved bow,
miserable swineherd, thou man distraught? Soon by
thy swine, alone and apart from men, shall the swift
 hounds devour thee—hounds thyself didst rear—if
 but Apollo be gracious to us, and the otlier immortal
gods.”
    So theyspoke, and he set down the bow,ashe bore
it, in that very place, seized with fearbecause many
                 ix out aloud in the halls. But ‘Tele~
inachus on the other side called out threateningly :
    “Father, bear on the bow—soon «shalt μου
   1¢ giving heed to all—lest, younger though I am,
Idrive tice to the field, and pelt thee with stones +
for in strength T am the better. I would that I
were even s0 much better in strength and might
than all the wooers that are in the house; then
‘woul I soon send many a one forth from our house
to gohis way in evi case;for they devisewickedness.”
     0 he spoke, but all ‘the wooers laughed meriily
at him, and relaxed the bitterness of their anger
against Telemachus, Howbeit the swineherd bore
the bow through the hall, and came up to wise
Odysseus, and put it in his hands. ‘Then he ealled
forth the nurse Eurycleia, and said to her:
   “Telemachus bids thee, wise Euryeleia, to bar
the close-itting doors of ‘the hall, and it any of
‘the women heat within groanings or the din of men
within our walls, let them not rush out, but remain
where they are in silence at their work.”
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinged
and she barred the doors of the stately halls.
                                               331

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_342>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 388-414
    Bat fn silence Philoetius hastened forth from
 the house, and barred the gates of the well-fenced
 court. Now there lay beneath the portico the
 cable of a curved ship, made of byblus plant, where-
 with he made fast the gates, and then himself went
 within, Thereafter he came and sat down on the
 seat from which he hed risen, and gazed upon
 Odysseus; now he was already handling the bow,
 turning it round and round, and trying it this way
 and that, lest worms might have eaten the horns,
while itslord was afar. And thus woul one speak
 with a glance at his neighbour:
    “Verily he has a shrewd eye, and is ἃ cunning
Knave with a bow. It may be haply that he has
himself such bows stored away at home, or else he is
minded to make one, that he thus turns it this way
‘and that in his hans, the raseally vagabond.”
    ‘And again another of the proud youths would say:
«Would that the fellow might find profitin just such
measure as he shall prove able ever to string this
bow.”
    So spoke the wooers, but Odysseus of many wiles,
as soon as he had lifted the great bow and scanned
it on every side—even as when a man well-skilled
in the lyre and in song easily stretches the string
‘about a new peg, making fast at either end the
twisted sheep-gut—so without effort. did Odysseus
string the great bow. And he held it in his right
hand, and tried the string, which sang sweetly be-
neath his touch, like to aswallow in tone. But w
the wooers came great grief, and the faces of them
changed colour, and Zeus thundered loud, shewing
forth his signs. Then glad at heart was the much-
enduring, goodly Odysseus that the son of erooked-
                                                  333

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_344>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΙ. 415-434
 counselling Cronos sent him an omen, and he took up
 ‘ swift arrow, which lay by him on the table,bare,
 but the others were stored within the hollow quiver,
 even those of which the Achacans were soon totaste.
‘This he took, and laid upon the bridge of the bow,
 and drew the bow-string and the notched arrow
 even from the chair where he sat, and let fy the
shaft with sure aim, and did not miss the end of the
handle of one of the axes, but clean through and out
at the end passed the arrow weighted with bronze.
 But he spoke to Telemachus, saying:
    “Telemachus, the stranger that sits in thy halls
brings no shame upon thee, nor in any wise did I
miss the mark, or labour long in stringing the bow ;
still is my strength unbroken—not as the wooers
seornfully taunt me. But now it is time that supper
too be made ready for the Achaeans, while yet there
is light, andthereafter must yet other sport be made
‘with song and with the lyre; for these things are
the accompaniments of a feast.”
   He spoke, and made a sign with his brows, and
Telemachus, the dear son of divine Odysseus, girt
about him his sharp sword, and took his spear in his
grasp, and stood by the chair at his father's side,
armed with gleaming bronze.




                                               335

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_346>>>
BOOK       XXII

    Bur Odysseus of many wiles stripped off his rage
and sprang to the great threshold with the bow
and the quiver full of arrows, and poured forth the
swift arrows right there before his fect, and spoke
among the wooers :
   “Lo, now at last. is this decisive contest ended ;
and now as for another mark, which till now no man
hhag ever smitten, I will know if haply Imay strike it,
and Apollo grant me glory.”
    He spoke, and aimed a bitter arrow at Antinous.
Now he was on the point of raising to his lips ἃ fair
goblet, a two-cared cup of gold, and was even now
hhandling it, that he might drink of the wine, and
death was not in his thoughts. For who among men
that sat at meat could think that one man simong
λον, how strong sever he were, would bring upon
himself evil death and black fate? But Odysseus
took aim, and smote him with an arrow in the throat,
and clean out through the tender neck passed the
point; he sank to one side, and the cup fell from
his hand as he was smitten, and straightway up
through his nostrils there came a thick jet of the blood
of man; and quickly he thrust the table from him
with a kick of his foot, and spilled all the food on
the floor, and the bread androast flesh were befouled.
Then into uproar broke the wooers through the halls,
as they saw the man fallen, and from their high seats
  2Or, taking εἴσομαι asfut.ofεἶμι,“T will make for another
τονε                                                   337

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_348>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΤΙ. 23-46
 they sprang, driven in fear through the hall, gazing
 everywhere along the well-built walls; but nowhere
 was there a shield or mighty spear to seize. But
 they railed at Odysseus with angry words :
     “Stranger, to thy cost dost thou shoot at
 men} never again shalt thou take part in other
 contests; now is thy utter destruction sure. Aye, for
 ‘thou hast now slain a man who was far the best
 of the youths in Ithaca; therefore shall vultures
 devour thee here.”                           Ξ
    ‘So spoke! ench man, for verily they thought that
 he had not slain the man wilfully; and in their foll
 ‘they knew not this, that over themselves one and all
 the cords of destruction had been made fast. ‘Then
 with an angry glance from beneath his brows
 Odysseus of many wiles answered them :
    Ye dogs, ye thought that I should never more
 ‘come home from the land ofthe Trojans, seeing that
 ye wasted my house, and lay with the maidservants
 by force, and while yet I lived covertly wooed my
 wife, having no fear of the gods, who hold brosd
 heaven, nor of the indignation of men, that is to be
 hereafter. Now over you one and all have the cords
of destruction been made fast.”
    So he spoke, and thereat pale fear seized them
all, and each man gazed about to see how he might
escape utter destruction Burymachus alone answered
 him, and said :
    “If thou art indeed Odysseus of Ithace, come
home again, this that thou sayest is just regarding
all that the Achaeans have wrought—many deeds of
   Ὁ Or, M90 guessed” ; wethe note on xix, 208,
   5 OF tho preposition may be local, "ecized the Limbs οἵ
all beneath ‘them.” The samo ambiguity oooure in other
passages,
                                                       339

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_350>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 47-73
 wanton folly in thy halls and many in the field. But
 he now lies dead, who was to blame for all, even
 ‘Antinous ;for it was he who set on foot these deeds,
 not so much through desire or need of the marriage,
 Dat with another purpose, which the son of Cronos did
not bring to pass for him, that in the land of settled
 Ithaca he might himself be king, and might liein
 wait for thy son and slay him. But now he lies slain,
teas his due, but do thon spare the people that are
thine own ; and we will hereafter go about the land
and get thee recompense for all that has been drunk
and eaten in thy halls, and will bring each man for
himself in requital the worth of twenty oxen, and
pay thee back in bronze and gold until thy heart be
‘warmed ;but till then no one could blame thee that
thou art wroth.”
   Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows.
Odysseus of many wiles answered him: Rury-
machus, not even if you should give me in requital
all that your fathers left you, even all that you now
have, and should add other wealth theréto from
whence yemight, not even so would I henceforth
stay my hands from slaying until the wooers had paid
the full price of all their transgression, Now it lies
before you to fight in open fight, or to flee, if any
‘man may avoid death and the fates ; but many aone,
methinks, shall not escape from utter destruetion.”
   So he spoke, and their knees were loosened where
they stood, and their hearts melted and Eurymachus
spoke among them again a second time:
   “Friends, for you see that this man will not stay
his invincible hands, but now that he has got the
polished bowand the quiver, will shoot from the smooth
threshold until he slays us all, come, let us take
                                                   340

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_352>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 74-100
  thought of battle. Draw your swords, and hold the
  tables before you against the arrows that bring swift
  death, and let us all have at him in a body, in the
  hope that we may thrust him from the threshold and
 the doorway, and go throughout the city, and so the
 alarm be swiftly raised ;then should this fellow soon
 have shot his last.”
    So saying, he drew his sharp sword of bronze,
 two-edged, and sprang upon Odysseus with aterrible
 cry, but at the same instant goodly Odysseus let fy
 ‘an arrow, and struck him upon the breast beside the
 nipple, and fixed the swift shaft in his liver. And
 Enrymachus let the sword fall from his hand to the
 ground, and writhing over the table he bowed and
 fell, and spilt upon the floor the food and the two-
 handled cup. With his brow he beat the earth in
 agony of soul, and with both his feet he spurned and
shook the chair, and a mist was shed over his eyes.
    Then Anphinomus,       madeat glorons Odystees,
rushing straight upon him, and had drawn his. st
sword, in hope that Odysseus might give way eos
him from the door. But Telemachus was too quick
for him, and east, and smote him from behind with
his bronze-tipped spear between the shoulders, and
Grove it through his breast;and he fell with a thud,
and strack the ground full with his forehead. But
Telemachus sprang back, leaving the long spear
where it was, fixed in Amphinomus, for he greatly
feared lest, as he sought to draw forth the long
spear, one of the Achaeans might rush upon him
and stab him with his sword, or deal him a blow as
he stooped over the corpse.” So he started to run,
tnd came quickly to his dear father, and standing by
his side spoke to him winged words:
                                                  343,

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_354>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. τουτταό
   “Father, now will I bring thee a shield and two
spears and a helmet all of bronze, well fitted to the
temples, and when I come back f will arm myself,
and will give armour likewise to the swineherd and
yon neatherd ;for it is better to be clothed in
     Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
said: Run, and bring them, while yet [have arrows
to defend me, lest they thrust me from the door,
alone as I am.”
   So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and went his way to the store-chamber
where the glorious arms were stored. Thence he
took four shields and eight spears and four helmets
of bronze, with thick plumes of horse-hair; and he
bore them forth, and quickly came to his dear father.
‘Then first of all he himself girded the bronze about.
his body, and even in like manner the two slaves put
fon them the beautiful armour, and took their stand
on       either side of Odysseus, the wise and crafty-
minded.
   But he, so long as he had arrows to defend him,
would ever aim, and smite the wooers one by one
in his house, and they fell thick and fast. But when
the arrows failed the prince, as he shot, he leaned
the bow against the door-post of the well-built hall,
and let it stand against the bright. entrance wall.
For himself, he put about his shoulders a four-fold
shield, and set on his mighty head a well-wrought
helmet with horse-hair plume, and terribly did the
plome wave above ‘him; and he took two mighty
spears, tipped with bronze.
   Now there was in the well-built wall a certain
                                                   345

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_356>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 127-144
postern dour,’ and along the topmost level of the
threshold of the well-built, hall was a way into a
passage, and well-fitting folding doors closed it. ‘This
postern Odysseus bade the goodly swineherd watch,
taking his stand close by, for there was but a single
way to reach it, Then’ Agelaus spoke among the
‘wooers, and declared his word to all
   «Friends, will not one mount up by the postern
oor, and tell the people, that so an alarm may be
raised straightway? ‘Then should this fellow ‘soon
have shot his last.”
   ‘Then Melanthius, the goatherd, answered him : It
may not be, Agelaus, fostered of Zeus, for terribly
near is the fair door of the court, and the mouth of
the passage is hard. One man could bar the way for
all, 80 he were valiant. But come, let me bring you
from the store-room arms to don, for itis within, me-
thinks, and nowhere else that Odysseus and his
glorious son have laid the arms.”
   Sosaying, Melanthius, thegoatherd, mounted up by
the steps * of the halltothe store-rooms of Odysseus.
Thence he took twelve shields, as many spears, and
‘hich was level with the threshold in front, was elevatedto
the ground level inthe rear. Hence the fact that, the
δεσοδέρη, opening upon a “way outside, was itaelf above
         of the hall, and hadtobe reached by stops, ‘That
         és, of fonndation wall, was not itself level, but
followed the slope of the grotnd, seems to me to offer no
dificult.

                                        with ῥήσννμι, and
to call tho stops “breaks” in an ascent ia surely natoral
‘enough tee Monro.
       x                                              347

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_358>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΠΙ. 145-172
 asmany helmets of bronze with thick plumes of horse-
 hair, and went his way, and quickly brought and
‘gavethen tothe wooers. Thentheknees       ofOdysseus
 were loosened and his heart melted, when he saw
 them donning armour and brandishing long spears
 in their hands, and great did his task seem to
 him; but quickly he spoke to Telemachus winged
 words:
    “Telemachus, verily some one of the women in
 the halls is rousing against us an evil battle, or
 haply it is Melanthius.’
    ‘Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Father, it
 is I myself that am at fault in this, and no other is
 to blame, for I left the close-fitting door of the
 store-room open: their watcher was better than I.
 Butgonow, goodly Bumaeus, close the door of the
 store-room, and see whether it is one of the women
 who does this, or Melanthius, son of Dolius, as I
 suspect.”
      "hus they spoke to one another. But Melanthius,
 the goatherd, went again to the store-room to bring
 eautiful armour; howbeit the goodly swincherd
 marked him, and straightway said to Odysseus who
 was near:
    Son of Laertes, sprung from Zeus, Odysseus of
 many devices, yonder again is the pestilent fellow,
 whom we ourselves suspect, going to the store-room.
 But do thou tell me troly, shall 1 slay him, if T
 prove the better man, or shall 1 bring him hither to
‘thee, that the fellow may pay for the many crimes
 that he has planned in thy house ?””
    ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
 said: “Verily 1 and Telemachus will keep the lordly
 ‘wooers within the hall, how fierce soever they be,
                                                   349

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_360>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 173-199
 but do you two bend behind him his feet and his
 arms above, and cast him into the store-room, and
 tie boards behind his back; then make fast to. his
 body a twisted rope, and hoist him up the tall pillar,
 till you bring him near the roof-beams, that he may
 keep alive long, and suffer grievous torment.”
     So he spoke, and they readily hearkened and
 obeyed. Forth they went to the store-room, unseen
 of him who was         within, He truly was secking for
 armour in the innermost part of the store-toom, and
 the two lay in wait, standing on either side of the
 door-posts. And when Melanthius, the goatherd,
 was about to pass over the threshold, bearing in one
 hand a goodly helm, and in the other a broad old
 shield, flecked with rust—the shield of lord Laertes,
 which he was wont tobear in his youth, but now it
‘waslaidby, and the seams      ofitsstraps were loosened—
 then the two sprang upon him and seized him. They
 ragged him in by the hair, and flung him down on
 the ground in sore terror, and bound his feet and
 hands with galling bonds,binding them firmly behind
 his back, as the son of Laertes bade them, the much-
 enduring, goodly Odysseus; and they made fast: to
 his body a twisted rope, and hoisted him up the tall
 pillar, till they brought him near the roof-beams.
 ‘Then didst thou mock him, swincherd Eumacus, and
    “Now verily, Melanthius, shalt thou watch the
 whole night through, lying on a soft bed, as befits
 thee, nor shalt thou ‘fail to mark the early Dawn,
 golden-throned, as she comes forth from the streams
 of Oceanus, at the hour when thou art wont to drive
 thy she-goats for the wooers,to prepare a feastin the
 halls.”
                                                       351

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_362>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 200-227
    So hewas left there, stretched in the direful bond,
but the two put on their armour, and closed the
bright door, and went to Odysseus, the wise and
erafty-minded, There they stood, breathing fury,
those on the threshold but four, while those within
the hall were many and brave. Then Athene, daugh-
ter of Zeus, drew near them, like unto Mentor in
formand voice, and Odysseus sw her, and wasglad
and hespoke, saying :
   ‘Mentor, ward of τοῖο, and remember me,
thy dear comrade, who often befriended thee. Thou
art of like age with myself.”
   So he spoke, deeming that it was Athene, the
rouser of hosts. But the wooers on the other side
shouted aloud in the hall, and first Agelaus, son of
Damastor, rebuked Athene, saying :
   “Mentor, let not Odysseus beguile thee with his
words to fight against the wooers and bear aid to
himself. For in this wise, methinks, shall our will
be brought to pass: when we have kilied these men,
father and son, thereafter shalt thou too be slain with
them, such deeds art thou minded to do in these
halls: with thine own head shalt thou pay the price,
But when with the sword we have stripped you of
‘your might, all the possessions that thou hast within
doors and in the fields we will mingle with those of
Odysseus, and will not suffer thy sons or th
daughters to dwell in thy halls, nor thy faithful wife
to fare at large in the city of Ithaca.”
   So he spoke, and Athene waxed the more wroth at
heart, and she rebuked Odysseus with angry words:
   “Odysseus, no longer hast thou steadfast might
nor any valout, such as was thine when for high-born
Helen of the white arms thou didst for nine years
                                                    353

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_364>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 228-255
battle with the Trojans unceasingly, and many men
 thon slewest in dread conflict, and by thy counsel
was the broad-wayed city of Priam taken. How is it
that now, when thou hast come to thy house and
thine own possessions, thou shrinkest with wailing
from playing the man, and that against the wooers?
Nay, friend, come hither and take thy stand by my
side, and see my deeds, that thou mayest know what
manner of man Mentor, son of Aleimus, is to repay
     dness in the midst of the foe.””
    She spoke, but did not give him strength utterly
to tum the course of the battle, Iut still made trial
of the might and valour of Odysseus and his glorious
son; and for herself, she flew up to the roof-Leam of
the smoky hall, and sat there in the guise of a swallow
to look upon,
    Now the wooers were urged on by Agelaus, son of
Damastor, by Eurynomus, and Amphimedon and De-
moptolemus and Peisander, son of Polyctor, and wise
Polyhus, for these were in valiance far the best of all
the wooers who still lived and fought for their lives
but the rest the bow and the swiftly-falling arrows
had by now laid low. But Agelaus spoke among
‘them, and declared his word to all:
    “Friends, now at length will this man stay his in-
vineible hands. Lo, Mentor has gone from him, and
has but uttered empty boasts, and they are left alone
there at the outer doors. Therefore hurl not now
upon them your long spears all at once, but come,
do you six throw first in the hope that Zeus may
grant that Odysseus be struck, and that we win
glory. Of the rest there is no care, onee he shall
have fallen.”
   So he spoke, and they all hurled their spears, as
                                                    355

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_366>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 256-284
 he bade, eagerly; but Athene made all vain, One
 man smote the door-post of the well-built hall, an-
 other the close-itting door, another's ashen spear,
 heavy with bronze, struck upon the wall. But when
they’ had avoided the spears of the wooers, first
 among them spoke the much-enduring goodly Odys-
      “Friends, now I give the word that we too cast
‘our spears into the throng of the wooers, who are
minded to slay us in addition to their former
 wrongs.”
      So he spoke, and they all hurled their sharp spears
with sure aim. Odysseus smote Demoptolemus, Tele-
machus Euryades, the swineberd Blatus, and the
herdsmen of the cattle slew Peisander. 80 these all
at the same moment bit the vast floor with theh
 teeth, and the wooers drew back to the innermost
part of the hall. But the others sprang forward and
Grew forth their spears from the dead bodies.
      Then again the wooers hurled their sharp spears
eagerly, but Athene made them vain, many as they
were. One man smote the door-post. of the well-
built’ hall, another the close-fitting door, another's
ashen spear, heavywith bronze, struck upon the wall.
But Amphimedon smote Telemachus on the hand by
‘the wrist, a grazing blow, and the bronze tore the
surface of the skin. And Ctesippus with his long
spear grazed the shoulder of Eumacus above his
shield, but the spear flew over and fell upon the
ground. Then once more Odysseus, the wise and
crafty-minded, and his company hurled their sharp
spears into the throng of the wooers, and again
Oaysseus, the sacker of cities, smote Eurydamas, and
Telemachus Amphimedon, the swincherd Polybus,
                                                      357

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_368>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 285-311
‘and thereafter the herdsman of the cattle smote
Ctesippus in the breast, and boasted over him,
saying:
   “Son of Polytherses, thou lover of revilings, never
more at all do thou speak big, yielding to folly, bat
leave the matter to the gods, since verily they are
mightier far. ‘This is thy gift of welcome to match
the hoof which of late thou gavesttogodlike Odys-
seus, when he went begging through the house.””
   So spoke the herdsman of the sleek cattle. But
Odysseus wounded the son of Damastor in close fight
with a thrust of his long spear, and Telemachus
wounded Leiocritus, son of Evenor, with a spear-
thrust full upon the groin, and drove the bronze clean.
through, and he fell headlong and struck the
ground full with his forehead. ‘Then Athene held
up her aegis, the bane of mortals, on high from the
roof, and the minds of the wooers were panic-stricken,
and they fled through the halls like aherd of kine
that the darting gad-fly falls upon and drives along,
in the season of spring, when the long days come.
‘And even as vultures of crooked talons and curved
beaks come forth from the mountains and dart upon
smaller birds, which scour the plain, fiying low be-
neath the clouds,and the vultures pounce upon them
and slay them, and they have no defence or way of
escape, and men rejoice at the chase ; even sodid those
others set upon the wooers and smite them left and
right through the hall. And therefrom rose hideous
groaning as heads were smitten, and all the floor
‘swam with blood.
   But Leiodes rushed forward and clasped the knees
of Odysseus, and made entreaty to him, and spoke
winged words :
                                                    359

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_370>>>
THE ODYSSEY, ΧΧΊΙ. 312-337
   “By thy knees I beseech thee, Odysseus, and do
thou respect me and have pity. For I declare to
thee that never yet have I wronged one of the
‘women in thy halls by wanton word or deed; nay, I
soughttocheck the other wooers, when any would
do such deeds. But they would not hearken to me
to withhold their hands from evil, wherefore through
their wanton folly they have met a cruel doom.
Yet I, the soothsayer among them, that have done
no wrong, shallbe laid low even asthey;; so true isit
that there is no gratitude in aftertime for good deeds
done.”
   ‘Then with an angry glance from beneath his brows
Odysseus of many wiles answered him: “If verily
thou dost declare thyself  thesoothsayer among these
men, often, Iween, must thou have prayed in the
hulls that far from me the issue of a joyous return
might be removed, and that it might be with thee
‘that my dear wife should go and bear thee children ;
wherefore thou shalt not escape grievous death.”
   So saying, he seized in his strong hand a sword
that lay near, which Agelaus had let fall to the
ground when he was slain, and with this he smote
‘him full upon the neck. And even while he was yet
speaking his head was mingled with the dust.
   Now the son of Terpes, the minstrel, was still
secking to escape black fate, even Phemius, who
sang perforce among the wooers. He stood with the
clear-toned lyre in his hands near the postern door,
and he was divided in mind whether he should slip
out from the hall and sit down by the well-built,
altar of great Zeus, the God of the court, whereon
Laertes and Odysseus had bumed many ‘thighs of
‘oxen, or whether he should rush forward and clasp
                                                    361

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_372>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 338-366
 the knees of Odysseus in prayer. And as he pon-
 dered this seemed to him the better eourse, to clasp
 the knees of Odysseus, son of Laertes. So he laid
 the hollow lyre on the ground between the mixing-
 bowl and the silver-studded chair,and himself rushed
 forward and clasped Odysseus by the knees, and
 made entreaty to him, and spoke winged words:
    * By thy knees I beseech thee, Odysseus, and do
 thou respect me and have pity; on thine own self
 shall sorrow come hereafter, if thou slayest_ the
 minstrel, even me, who sing to gods and men, Self
 taught am I, and the god has planted in my heart
 all manner of lays, and worthy am I to sing to thee
 as toagod; wherefore be not eager to cut my throat.
 ‘Aye, and Telemachus too will bear witness to this,
 ‘thy dear son, how that through no will or desire of
 mine I was wont to resort to thy house to sing
 to the wooers at their feasts, but they, being far
 more and stronger, led me hither perforce.”
    So he spoke, and the strong and mighty Telema-
 cchus heard him, and quickly spoke to his father, who
‘wasnear:
    “Stay thy hand, and do not wound this guiltless
 ‘man with the sword. Aye, and let us save also the
 herald, Medon, who ever cared for me in our house,
 when I was ἃ child—unless perchanee Philoetius
 has already slain him, or the swineherd, or he met
 thee as thou didst rage through the house.
    So he spoke, and Medon, wise of heart, heard him,
 for he lay crouching beneath a chair, and had clothed
 himself in the skin of an ox, newly flayed, seeking to
 avoid black fate. Straightwayherose from beneath
 the chair and stripped offthe ox-hide, and then rashed
 forward and clasped Telemachus by the knees, and
 made entreaty to him, and spoke winged words:
                                                    363

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_374>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 367-397
     «Friend, here I am; stay thou thy hand and bid thy
 father stay his, lest in the greatness of his might he
 harm me with the sharp bronze in his wrath against
 the wooers, who wasted his possessions in the halls,
 and in their folly honoured thee not at all.”
     Bat Odysseus of many wiles smiled, and said to
 him: “Be of good cheer, for he has delivered thee
and saved thee, that thou mayest know in thy heart
and tell also to another, how far better is the doing
       ood deeds than of evil. But go forth from the
halls and sit down outside in the court away from
the slaughter, thou and the minstrel of many songs,
ΜΝ Τshall hae finshed all that I must needs do in
 the house.”
    So he spoke, and the two went their way forth
from the hall and sat down by the altar of great
Zeus, gazing about on every side, ever expecting
death. And Odysseus too gazed about all through
his house to see if any man yet lived, and was hidin,
there, seeking to avoid black fate, But he found
them one and al fallen in the blood and dust—all the
host of them, like fishes that fishermen have drawn
forth in the meshes of their net from the grey sea
upon the curving beach, and they all lie heaped upon
the sand, longing for the waves of the sea,andthe
bright sun takes away their life; even so now the
‘wooers lay heaped upon each other. Then Odysseus
of many wiles spoke to Telemachus :
    “Telemachus, go call me the nurse Eurycleia, that
I may tell her the word that isin my mind.”
    So he spoke, and Telemachus hearkened to his
dear father, and shaking the door said to Burycle
    “ Up and hither, aged wife, that hast charge of αἱ
our woman servants in the halls. Come, my father
calls thee, that he may tell thee somewhat.”
                                                    365

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_376>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 398-426
   So he spoke, but her word remained unwinge
she opened the doors of the stately hall, andcame
forth, andTelemachus led the way before her. There
she found Odysseus amia the bodies of the slain,
all befouled with blood and filth, likealion that comes,
from feeding on an ox of the farmstead, and all his
breast and his cheeks on either side are stained
with blood, and he is terrible to look upon even 8ὸ
was Odysseus befouled, his fect and his hands above,
But she, when she beheld the corpses and the great
welter of blood, made ready to utter loud cries
of joy, seeing what a decd had been wrought.
But Odysseus stayed and checked her in her eager.
ness, and spoke and addressed her with winged
words:
   “«Inthine own heart rejoice, old dame, but refrain
thyself and ery not out aloud: an unholy thing
is it to boast over slain men, These men here
has the fate of the gods destroyed and their own
reckless deeds, for they honoured no one of men
upon the earth, were he evil or good, whosoever
came among them; wherefore by their wanton
folly they brought on themselves a shameful death,
But come, name thou over to me the women in
the halls, which ones dishonour me and which are
guiltless.”
   ‘Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered hit
«Then verily, my child, will Ttell thee all the truth.
Fifty women servants hast thou in the halls, women
‘that we have taught to do their work, to card the
‘wool and bear the lot of slaves. Of these twelve in
all have set their feet in the way of shamelessness,
‘and regard not me nor Penelope herself. And
Telemachus is but newly grown to manhood, and his
                                                    367

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_378>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 427-453
 mother would not suffer him to rule over the women
servants. But come, let me go up to the bright upper
chamber and bear word to thy wife, on whom some
god has sent sleep.”
    ‘Then Odysseus of meny wiles answered her, and
said: “Wake her not yet, but do thou bid come
hither the women, who in time past have contrived
shameful deeds.”
    So he spoke, and the old dame went forth through
the hall to beat tidings to the women, and bid them
come; but Odysseus called to him Telemachus and
the neatherd and the swincherd, and spoke to them
winged words:
    “Begin now to bear forth the dead bodies and bid
the women help you, and thereafter cleanse the
Deautiful-chairs and the tables with waterandporous
sponges. But when you have set all the house ia
order, lead the women forth from the well-built hall
toa place between the dome? and the goodly fence
ofthe court, and there strike them dowa with your
Jong swords; until you take away the life from them
all, and they forget the love which they hadat the
bidding of the wooers, when they lay with themin
secret.”
    So he spoke, and the women cameall in a throng,
wailing teribly and shedding big tears. First they
bore forth the bodies of the slain and set them down
beneath the portico of the well-fenced court, prop-
ping them one against the other; and Odysseus him-
self gavethemorders and hastened on the work, and
they bore the bodies forth perforce. ‘Then they
cleansed the beautiful bigh seats and the tables with
   Lis impousfble
swas,ave   thar it  to have
                  mnt  determine
                            boen   precieelydomeliko
                                  tome          what the   ϑίλον
                                                     strastare
within the aig,
                                                         369

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_380>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 454-480
waterand porous sponges. But Telemachus and the
neatherd and the swineherd scraped with hoes the
floor of the well-built house, and the women bore
the scrapings forth and threw them out of doors.
But when they had set in order all the hall, they
led the women forth from the well-built hall to a
place between the dome and the goodly fence of the
court, and shut them up in ἃ narrow space, whence
it was in no wise possible to escape. Then wise
Telemachus was the first to speak to the others,
saying
   "let it be by no clean death that I take the lives
of these women, who on my own head have poured
reproachees and on my mother, and were wont to lie
with the wooers.”
    So he spoke, and tied the cable  ofadark-prowed
ship to a great pillar and flung it round the dome,
stretching it on high that none might reach the
ground with her feet. And as when long-winged
thrushes or doves fall into a snare that is set in a
thicket,asthey seekto reach their resting-place,    and
hateful is the bed that gives them weleome, even so
the women held their heads in a row, and round the
necks of all nooses were laid, that they might die
most piteously. And they writhed ἃ little while with
their feet, but not long.
    ‘Then forth they led Melanthius through the’ door-
way and the court, and cut off his nostrils and his
cears with the pitiless bronze, and drew out his vitals
for the dogs to eat raw, and cut off his hands and his
feet in their furious wrath,
    Thereafter they washed their hands and feet,
and went into the house to Odysseus, and the work
was done, But Odysseus ssid to the dear nurse
                                                   311

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_382>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII, 481-sor
     -ycleia:   “Bring sulphur, old dame,tocleanse from
pollution, and bring me fire, that I'may purge the
hall; and do thou bid Penelope come hither with
her handmaidens, and order all the women in the
house to come.”
   Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered him:
“Yea, all this, my child, hast thou spoken aright.
Bat come, let me bring thee a cloak and a tunic for
raiment, and do not thou stand thus in the halls with
‘thy broad shoulders wrapped in rags; that were ἃ
cause for blame.”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered her:
       rt ofall let a fie now be made me in the hall.”
   So he spoke, and the dear nurse Eurycleia did not
disobey, but brought fire and sulphur; but Odysseus
throughly purged the hall and the house and the
court.
   Then the old dame went back through the fair
house of Odysseus to bear tidings to the women and
bid them come; and they came forth from their hall
with torches in their hands. They thronged about
Odysseus and embraced him, and clasped and kissed
his head and shoulders and his hands in loving wel-
‘come; and a sweet longing seized him to weep and
‘wail, for in his heart he knew them all.




                                                   313

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_384>>>
BOOK       XXII

   ‘Tuzw the old dame went up to the upper chamber,
Jaughing aloud, to tell her mistress that her dear
husband wasinthe house. Her knees moved nimbly,
buther fect trotted along beneath her αὶ and she stood
above her lady’s head, and spoketoher, and said:
   “Awake, Penelope, dear child, that with thine
own eyes thou mayest see what thou desirest allthy
days, Odysseus is here, and has come home, late
though his coming has been, and has slain the proud
‘wooers who vexed his house, and devoured his sub-
stance, and oppressed his son.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
the gods have made thee mad, they who can make
foolish even one who is full wise, and set the simple-
minded in the patls of understanding; it is they
that have marred thy wits, though heretofore thou
‘wast sound of mind. Why dost thou mock me, who
have a heart full of sorrow, to tell me this wild tale,
and dost rouse me out of slumber, the sweet slumber
that bound me and enfolded my eyelids? For never
yet have I slept so sound since the day when Odys-
seus went forth to sce evil Ilios that should not be
named. Nay come now, go down and back to the
women’s hall, for if any other of the women that are
  2 ‘The meaning of ὑπερικταίνομαι hatoboinferred from the
ast
ἔπι    impits
      πο  tat thQf the
                   Bret ld  westan
                        eloment  ἴα and  the Toctleens
                                    the word  is xd, nob of
                                                          spe
                                                         Pape
                                                          315

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_386>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII, 22-47
mine had come and told me this, and had roused me
out of sleep, straightway would I have sent her back
insorry wise to return again to the hall, but tothee
cold age shall bring this profit.”
    Then the dear nurse Furyeleia answered her: I
mock thee not, dear child, but in very trath Odys-
seus is here, and has come home, even'as I tell thee.
He is that stranger to whom all men did dishonour
in the halls, But Telemachus long ago knew that
he was here, yet in his prudence he hid the purpose
of his father, till he should take vengeance on the
violence of overweening men.”
    So she spoke, and Penelope was glad, and she
leapt from her bed and flang her arms about the old
‘woman and let the tears fall from her eyelids; and
she spoke, and addressed her with winged word:
    “Come now, dear nurse, I pray thee tell me truly,
if verily he has come home, as thou sayest, how he
put forth his hands upon the shameless wooers, all
alone as he was, while they remained always in a
body in the house.’
    Then the dear nurse Burycleia answered her: I
saw not, I asked not; only I heard the groaning of
men that were being slain. As for us women, we
sat terror-stricken in the innermost part ofour well-
built chambers, and the close-fitting doors shut us in,
until the hour when thy son Telemachus called me
from the hall, for his father had sent him forth to
call me, Then I found Odysseus standing amon,
the bodies of the slain, and they, stretched all aroun
       on the hard floor, lay one ‘pon the other the
 ght would have warmed thy heart with cheer.
   2 The apurioa ine 48, αἵματι καὶ Aitoy πεπαλαγμένον ὅν re
Morea (eras ἀἰ has een omitted in translating
                                                        31)

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_388>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 49-76
And now the bodies are all gathered together at the
gates of the court, but he is purging the fair house
frit sulphur, and has kindled a great fire, and sent
me forth to call thee. Nay, come with me, that the
hearts of you two may enter into joy, for you have suf-
fered many woes. But now at length has this thy long
desire been fulfilled: he has come himself, alive to
his own hearth, and he has found both thee and his
son in the halls ; while as for those, even the wooers,
who wrought him evil, on them has he taken
vengeance one and all in his house.”
       en wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
boast not yet loudly over them with laughter. ‘Thou
knowest liow welcome the sight of him in the halls
would be to all, but above all to me and to his son,
born of us two. But this is no true tale, as thou
tellest it; may, some one of the immortals has slain
the lordly wooers in wrath at their grievous insolence
and their evil deeds. For they honoured no one
‘among men upon the earth, were he evil or good,
whosoever came among them} therefore it is through
their own wanton folly that they have suffered evil.
But Odysseus far away has lost his return to the
land of Achaea, and is lost himself.”
    Then the dear nurse Eurycleia answered her:
“My child, what a word has escaped the barrier of
thy terth, in that thou saidst that thy husband, who
even now is here, at his own hearth, would never
more return! Thy heart is ever unbelieving. Nay
come, [ will tell thee ἃ manifest sign besides, even
the sear of the wound which long ago the boar
dealt him with his white tusk. This I marked while
 I washed his feet, and was fain to tell it to thee as
‘well, but he laid his hand upon my mouth, and in
     x                                               379

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_390>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 77-103
the great wisdom of his heart would not suffer me
to speak. So come with me; but I will set my very
life at stake that, if I deceive thee, thou shouldest
slay me by a most pitiful death.”
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered her: “Dear nurse,
it is hard for thee to comprehend the counsels of the
gods that are forever, how wise soever thou art.
Nevertheless let us go to my son, that 1 may see
the wooers dead and him that slew them.”
   So saying, she went down from the upper chamaber,
and much her heart pondered whether she should
stand aloofand question her deav husband, or whether
she should go up to him, and clasp and kiss his head
and hands. But when she had come in and had
passed over the stone threshold, she sat down
‘opposite Odysseus in the lightofthe fire beside the
farther wall; but he was sitting by a tall pillar,
looking down, and waitingtosee whether his noble
wife would say aught to him, when her eyes beheld
him. Howbeit she sat long in silence, and amaze-
ment came upon her soul; and now with her eyes
she would look full upon his face, and now again
she would fail to know him, for thet he had upon
him mean raiment. But Telemachus rebuked her,
and spoke, and addressed her :
   “My mother, cruel mother, that hast an unyielding
heart, why dost thou thus hold aloof from my father,
and dost not sit by his side and ask and question
him? No other woman would harden her heart as
thou dost, and stand aloof from her husband, who
after many grievous toils had come back to her in
the twentieth year to his native land: but thy heart
is ever harder than stone.”
                                                  381

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_392>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 104-133
    Then wise Penelope answered him: “My child,
the heart in my breast is lost in wonder, and I have
no power to speak at all, nor to ask a question, nor to
ook him in the face. ’But if in very truth he is
Odysseus, and has come home, we two shall surely
know one another more certainly; for we have signs
which we two alone know, signs hidden from others.”
    So she spoke, and the much-enduring, goodly
Odysseus smiled, and straightway spoke to Telema-
hus winged words:
    “Telemachus, suffer now thy mother to test me in
the halls; presently shall she win more certain know-
ledge. But now because 1 am foul, and am clad
about my body in-'mean clothing, she seors me, and
will not yet admit that Iam he.” But for us, letus
take thought how all may be the very best. For
whoso has slain but one man in a land, even
though it be a man that leaves not many belind to
avenge him, he goesintoexile, and leaves his kindred
and his native Iand; but we have slain those who
were the very stay of the city, far the noblest of the
youths of Ithaca. Of this [bid thee take thought.”
    Then wise Telemachus answered him: “Do thou
thyself look tothis, dear father ; for thy counsel, they
say, isthe best among men, nor could any other of
mortal men vie with thee. As for us, we will follow
with thee eagerly, nor methinks shall we be wanting
in valour, 50 far as we have strength.”
    Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
said: Then will I tell thee what seems to me to be
            raiment, But let the divine minstrel
with bis clear-toned lyre in hind be our leader in
                                                  383

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_394>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 134-162
 the gladsome dance, that sny man who hears the
sound from without, whether a passer-by or one of
 those who dwell around, may say that it is a
 wedding feast; and so the rumour     oftheslaying of
 the wooers shall not be spread abrosd throughout
the city before we go forth to our well-wooded farm.
There shall we afterwards devise whatever advantage
the Olympian may vouchsafe us.
      So he spoke, and they all readily hearkened and
obeyed. First they bathed and put on their tunies,
and the women arrayed themselves, and the divine
minstrel took the hollow lyre and aroused in them
the desire of sweet song and goodly dance. So the
reat hall resounded all about with the tread of
dancing men and of fair-girdled women; and thus
would one speak who heard the noise from without
the house:
     “Aye, verily some one has wedded the queen
‘wooed of many. Cruel     shewas,norhad she the heart
to keep the great house of her wedded husband to
the end, even till he should come.”
      So they would say, but they knew not how these
things were. Meanwhile the housewife Eurynome
bathed the great-hearted Odysseus in his honse, and
anointed him with oil, and cast about him a fair cloak
      ἃ ἃ tunic; and over his head Athene shed abun-
   fant beauty, making him taller to look upon and
‘mightier, and from his head she made locks to flow
in curls like the hyacinth flower. And as when a
‘man overlays silver with gold, a cunning workman
whom Hephaestus and Pallas Athene have taught all
Tenner of crafty and full of grace is the work he
produces, even 0 the goddess shed grace on his
head and shoulders, and forth from the bath he
                                                   385

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_396>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 163-191
came, in form like unto the immortals. ‘Then he sat
down again on the chair from which’ he had risen,
opposite his wife; and he spoke to her and said:
   Strange Indy! to thee beyond all women have
the dwellers on Olympus given a heart that cannot be
softened. No other woman would harden her heart
as thou dost, and stand aloof from her husband who
after many grievous toils had come to her in the
twentieth year to his native land. Nay come, nurse,
strew me a couch, that all alone I may lay me down,
for verily the heart in her breast is of iron,
   ‘Then wise Penelope answered him: “Strange sir,
Tam neither in any wise proud, nor do I scorn thee,
nor yet am I too greatly amazed, but right well do ἱ
Know whét manner of man thou wast, when thou
wentest forth from Ithaca on thy long-oared ship.
Yet come, Burycleia, strew for him the stout bed-
stead outside the well-built bridal chamber which he
made himself, Thither do ye bring for him the stout
bedstead, and cast upon it bedding, fleeces and
cloaks and bright coverlets.”
   So she spoke, andmade trial ofherhusband. But
Odysseus, in a burst of anger, spoke to his true-
hearted wife, and seid: “Woman, truly this isa
bitter word that thou hast spoken. "Who has set my
bed elsewhere? Hard would it be for one, though
 never s0 skilled, unless a god himself should come
and easily by his will set it in another place. Butof
men there is no mortal that live, be he never so
  oung andstrong, whocould easily pryit from its
 lacey for a greattokenis wrought in the fashioned
 Bed, and it wae 1 that built it and none other. A
 bush of long-leafed olive was growing within
 the court, strong and vigorous, and in girth it was
                                                  357

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_398>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII, 192-218
 like a pillar, Round about this I built my chamber,
 till I had finished it, with close-set stones, and I
 roofed it over well, and added to it jointed doors,
 close-ftting. Thereafter I cut away the leafy
 branches of the Iong-leafed clive, and, trimming the
 trunk from the root, I smoothed it around with the
 adze well and cunningly, and made it straight to the
 line, thus fashioning the bed-post; and I bored it all
 with the augur. Beginning with this I hewed out
 my bed, till I had finished it, inlaying it with gold
 and silver and ivory, and I stretched on it a thong
 of orhide,bright with pomple.”‘Thusdodeclare to
 thee this token; but {know not, woman, whether
 my bedstead is still fast in its place, or whether by
 now some man has cut from beneath the olive
stump, and set the bedstead elsewhere.”
    So he spoke, and her knees were loosened where
she sat, and her heart melted, asshe knew the sure
tokens which Odysseus told her. Then with a burst
of tears she ran straight toward him, and flung her
arms about the neck of Odysseus, and kissed his
head, and spoke, saying:
    “Be not vexed with me, Odysseus, for in all else
thou wast ever the wisest of men. Tt is the gods
that gave us sorrow, the gods who begrudged that
we two should remain with each other and enjoy our
youth, and come to the threshold of old age. |But
bbe not now wroth with me for this, nor full of in
nation, because at the first, when I saw thee, I di
not thus give thee welcome. For always the heart
in my breast was full of dread, lest some man should
come and beguile me with his words; for there are
many that plan devices of evil. Nay, even Argive
Helen, daughter of Zeus, would not have lain in love
                                                   389

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_400>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 219-246
with aman of another folk, had she known that the
warlike sons of the Achaeans were to bring her home
again to her dear native land. Yet verily in her ease
god prompted her to work a shamefil deed ;nor
until then did she lay up in her mind the thought of
that folly, the grievous folly from which at the first
sorrow came upon us too. But now,since thou hast
told the clear tokens of our bed, which no mortal
beside has ever seen save thee and me alone and one
single handmaid, the daughter of Actor, whom my
father gave me or ever I came hither, even her who
kept the doors of our strong bridal chamber, lo, thou
dost convince my heart, unbending as it is"
   So she spoke, and in his heart aroused yet more
the desire for lamentation ;and he wept, holding in
     arms his dear and true-hearted wife. And wel-
come as is the sight of land to men that swim, whose
well-built ship Poseidon has smitten on the seaasit,
was driven on by the wind and the swollen-wave,
and but few have made their escape from the gray
sea to the shore by swimming, and thickly are their
bodies erusted with brine, and gladly have they set
foot on the land and escaped from their evil case ;
even so welcome to her was her husband, as she
gazed upon him, and from his neck she could in no
wise let her white arms go. And now would the
rosy-fingered Dawn have arisen upon their weeping,
had not the goddess, flashing-eyed Athene, taken
other counsel. The long night she held back at
the end of its course, and likewise stayed the golden-
throned Dawn at the streams of Oceanus, and would
not suffer her to yoke her swift-footed horses that
bring light to men, Lampus and Phaethon, who are
the colts that bear the Dawn.
                                                391

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_402>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 247-278
    Then to his wife said Odysseus of many wiles:
“Wife, we have not yet come to the end of all our
trials, but still hereafter there istobemeasureless toil,
ong and hard, which I must fulfil to the end ;for so
did the spirit ‘of Tefresias foretell to me on the day
when I went down into the house of Hadestoen-
quire concerning the return of my comrades and
myself. But come, wife, let us to bed, that lulled
now by sweet slumber we may take our joy of
rae
    Then wise Penelope answered him: “Thy bed
shall be ready for thee whensoever thy heart shall
desire it, since the gods have indeed caused thee to
come back to thy well-built house and thy native
land. But since thou hast bethought thee of εἰ
and a god has put it into thy heart, come; tell me of
this trial, for in time to come, methinks, I shall learn
ofit, and tolmow it at once is no whit worse.”
    And Odysseus of many wiles answered her, and
said :“Strange lady!why dost thou now so urgently
 bid me tell thee? Yet I will declare it, and will
 hide nothing. Verily thy heart shall have no joy of
 it, even as I myself have none; for Teiresias bade
 me go forth to fall many cities of men, bearing a
 shapely oar in my hands, till I should come to men
 that know naught of the sea, and eat not of food
 mingled with salt; aye,    andthey know naught  ofships
 with purple cheeks, ot of shapely oars that serve as
‘wingstoships. And he told methis sign, right mani-
 Fest} nor will I hide it from thee. When another
 ‘wayfarer, on meeting me, should say that I had a
 winnowing fan on my stout shoulder, then he bade
 me fix my oar in the earth, and make goodly offerings
 to lord Poseidon—a ram and a bull and a bosr, that
                                                     393

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_404>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIII. 279-304
mates with sows—and depart for my home, and offer
sacred hecatombs to the immortal gods, who hold
broad heaven, to each one in due order. And death
shall come to’ me myselffarfrom the sea, a death so
gentle, that shall lay me low, when Iam overcome
with sleek old age, and my ‘people shall dwell in
prosperity around me. All this, he said, should I
see fulfilled.
   Then wise Penelope answered him: “If verily
the gods are to bring about for thee a happier old
age, there is hope then that thou wilt find an escape
from evil.”
   ‘Thus they spoke to one another; and meanwhile
Burynome and the nurse made ready the bed of
soft coverlets by the light of blazing torches. But
when they had busily spread the stout-built bed-
stead, the old nurse went back to her chamber to
ie down, and Eurynome, the maiden of the bed-
chamber, led them on their way to the couch with a
torch in her hands; and when she had led them to
the bridal chamber, she went back. And they then
gladly came to the place? of the couch that was
theirs of old. But Telemachus and the neatherd
and the swineherd stayed their feet from dancing,
and stayed the women, and themselves lay down
to sleep throughout the shadowy halls.
   But when the two had had their fill of the
joy of love, they took delight in tales, speaking
each to the other. She, the fait lady, told of all
that she hadendured in the halls, looking upon the
destructive throng of the wooers, who for her sake
slew many beasts, cattle and goodly sheep; and
    2Others ronder “rites,” but this seems un-Homeric,
                                                       395

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_406>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 305-333
 great, store of wine was drawn from the jars.
 But Zeus-born Odysseus recounted all the woes that
 he had brought on men, and all the toilthat in
 hhis sorrow he had himself endured, and she was
 glad to listen, nor did sweet sleep fall upon her
 eyelids, till he had told all the tale.
     He began by telling how at the first he over-
 came the Cicones, and then came tothe rich land
 fof the Lotus-eaters, and all that the Cyclops
 wronght, and how he made him pay the price for
 his mighty comrades, whom the Cyclops had eaten,
 and had shown no pity. Then how he came to
 Aeolus, who received him with a ready heart, and sent
 him on his way ; but it was not yet his fate to come
 to his dear native land, nay, the storm-wind caught
 hhim up again, and bore him over the teeming deep,
arosning heavily. Next ow he came to Telepylus
 of the strygonia ans, who destroyed his ships and
 hhis well-greaved comrades one and all, and Odysseus
 alone escaped in his black ship. Then he told ot
 all the wiles and craftiness of Circe, and how in his
 benched ship he had gone to the dank house of
 Hades to consult the spirit of Theban Teiresias, and
 had seen all his comrades and the mother who bore
 him and nursed him, when a child. And how he
 heard the voice of the Sirens, who sing unceasingly,
 and had come to the Wandering Rocks, and to dread
 Charybdis, and to Scylla, from whom never yet had
 men escaped unscathed. Then how his comrades
 slew the kine of Helios, and how Zeus, who thunders
 ‘on high, smote his swift ship with a flaming thunder-
 bolt, and his goodly comrades perished all together,
 while he alone escaped the evil fates. And how he
 ‘cametothe isle Ogygia and to the nymph Calypso,
                                                    397

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_408>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXII. 334-361
who kept him there in her hollow caves, yearnin,
that he should be her’ husband, and tended him, an
said that she would make him immortal and ageless
all his days; yet she could never persuade the heart
in his breast.” Then how he came after many toils to
the Phaeacians, who heartily showed him all honour,
as if he were @ god, and sent him ina ship to his
dear native land, after giving him stores of bronze
and gold and raiment. ‘This was,the end ofthe tale
he told, when sweet sleep, that loosens the limbs of
men, leapt upon him, loosening the cares of his
heart.
   ‘Then again the goddess, fashing-eyed Athene, took
other counsel. When che jadged that the heart of
 Odysseus had had its ΠῚ] of dalliance with his wife
 and of sleep, straightway she roused from Oceanus
 golden-throned Dawn to bring light tomen; and
 Odysseus rose from his soft couch, and gave charge
 to bis wife, saying:
     “Wife, by now have we had our fill of many trials,
 thou and I, thou here, mourning over my troublous
 joumey home, while as for me, Zeus and the other
 igods bound me fast in sorrows far from my native
 and, all eager as I vias to retum. But now that
  we have both come to the couch of our desire, do
  thou care for the wealth that I have within the
  halls; as for the flocks which the insolent wooers
  have wasted, I shall myself get me many as booty,
  apd others ‘vill the Achacans give, until they
  all my folds; but I verily will go to my well-
  wooded farm to see my noble father, who for my
  sake is sore distressed, and on thee, wife, do I lay
  this’ charge, wise though thou art Straightway at
                                                  399

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_410>>>
THE ΟΡΥΒΒΕΥ͂, XXIII. 362-372
the rising of the sun will report go abroad concern-
ing the wooers whom I slew in the halls. Therefore
   ‘thou up tothyupper chamber with thy handmaids,
Sndabide there, Look thon on no met, nor alk ἃ
question,
   He spoke, and girt about his shoulders his beauti-
ful armour, and roused Telemachus and the neat-
herd and the swineherd, and bade them all take
weapons of war in their hands. They did not dis-
obey, but clad themselves in bronze, and opened the
doors, and went forth, and Odysseus led the way.
By now there was light over the earth, but Athene
hid them in night, and swiftly led them forth from
the eity.

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_412>>>
BOOK      XXIV

    Msanwune Cyllenian Hermes called forth the
 spirits of the wooers. He held in his hands his
 wand, a fair wand of gold, wherewith he lulls to
sleep the eyes of whom he will, while others again
he wakens even out of slumber; with this he roused
and led the spirits, and they followed gibbering.
‘And as in the innermost recess of a wondrous cave
bats fit about gibbering, when one has fallen from olf
the rock from the chain in which they cling to
‘one another,50these went with him gibbering, and
Hermes, the Helper, led them down the dank ways.
Past the streams of Oceanus they went, past the
rock Leueas, past the gates of the sun and the land
of dreams, and quickly came to the mead of
asphodel, where the spirits dwell, phantoms of men
who have done with toils. Here they found the
spirit of Achilles, son of Peleus, and those of
  ratroclus, of peerless Antilochus, and of Aias, who in
ccomeliness and form was the goodliest of all the
Danaans after the peerless son of Peleus.
    So these were thronging about Achilles, and near
to them drew the spirit of Agamemnon, son. of
Atreus, sorrowing; and round about him others
‘were gathered, the spirits of all those who were slain
with him in the house of Aegisthus, and wnt their
fate. And the spirit of the son of Peleus was first
to address him, saying:
                                                     403

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_414>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 24-50
    “Son of Atreus, we deemed that thou above all
 other heroes wast all thy days dear toZeus, who hurls
 the thunderbolt, because thou wast: lord over many:
 mighty men in'the land of the Trojans, where we
 Achaeans suffered woes. But verily on thee too
 was deadly doom to come all too early, the doom
 that not one avoids of those who are born. Ah,
 ‘would that in the pride of that honour of which
 thou wast master thou hadsc met death and fate in
 the land of the Trojans. Then would the whole
 host of the Achaeans have made thee a tomb, and
 for thy son too wouldst thou have won great glory
 in days to come; but now, as it seems,ithas been
 decreed that thou shouldst be cut of by a most
iteous death.”
    Then the spirit of the son of Atreus answered
him: ‘Fortunate son of Peleus, godlike Achilles,
that wast slain in the land of Troy far from Argos,
and about thee others fell, the best of the sons of
the Trojans and Achaeans, fighting for thy body 5
and thou in the whirl of dust didst lie mighty
in thy mightiness, forgetful of thy horsemanship.
We on, our part strove the whole day long, nor
should we ever have stayed from the fight, had not
Zeus stayed us with a storm. But after we had
borne thee to the ships from out the fight, we laid
thee on a bier, and cleansed thy fair flesh with warm
water and with ointment, and many hot tears did
the Danaans shed around thee, and they shore their
hair. And thy mother came forth from the sea with
‘the immortal sea-nymphs, when she heard the
tidings, and a wondrous cry arose over the deep, and
thereat trembling Inid hold of all the Achacans.
‘Then would they all have sprang up and rushed to
                                                   495

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_416>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 51-77
the hollow ships, had not a man, wise in the wisdom
of old, stayed them, even Nestor, whose counsel had
before appeared the best. He with good intent
addressed their assembly, and sai
    «Hold, ye Argives; flee not, Achsean youths.
“Tishis mother who comes here forth from the ea
with the immortal sea-nymphs    to look uponthe face
of her dead son.”            ee          τὰ
    “So he spoke, and the great-hearted Achneans
ceased from their fight. ‘Tien around thee stood
  he daughters of the old man of the sea wailing
       sly, and theyclothed thee about with immortal
raiment.” And the Muses, nine in all, replying
to one another with sweet voices, led the dirge.
There couldst thou not have seen an Argive but
was in tears, so deeply did the clear-toned Muse
‘move their hearts, Thus for seventeen days alike
by night and day did we bewail thee, immortal gods
and mortal, men, and on the eighteenth we gave
thee to the fire, and many well-fatted sheep we slew
around thee and sleek kine. Sothou wast burned
in the raiment of the gods and in abundance of
unguents and sweet honey; and many Achaean
‘warriors moved in their armour aboutthe pyre, when
thou wast burning, both footmen and chariotecrs,
and a great din arose. But when the flame of
Hephaestus had made an end of thee, in the morning
we gathered thy white bones, Achilles, andlaidthem
in unmixed wine and unguents. Thy mother hed
given a two-handled, golden urn, and said that it
was the gift of Dionysus, and the handiwork of famed
Hephaestus. In this lie thy white bones, glorious
Achilles, and mingled with them the bones of the
dead Patroclus, son of Menoetius, but apart lie those
                                                  47

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_418>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 78-105
of Antilochus, whom thou didst honour above all
the rest of thy comrades after the dead Patroclus,
‘And over them we heaped up a great and goodly
tomb, we the mighty host of Argive spearmen, on a
projecting headland by the broad Hellespont, that
it might be seen from far over the sea both by men
that now are and that shall be born hereafter. But
thy mother asked of the gods beautifol prizes, and
set them in the midst of the lists for the chiefs of
the Achaeans. Ere now hast thou been present at
the funeral games of many men that were warriors,
when at the death of a king the young men gird
‘themselves and make ready the contests, but hadst
thou seen that sight thoa wouldst most have mar-
velled atheart, such beautiful prizes did the goddess,
silver-footed Thetis, set, there in thy honour; for
very dear wast thou to the gods, Thus not even in
death didst thou lose thy name, but ever shalt thou
have fair renown among all men, Achilles. But, as
for me, what pleasure have I now in this, that J
wound up the skein of war? For on my return
Zeus devised for me a woeful doom at the             of
‘Aegisthus and my accursed wife.”
    Thos they spoke to, one another, but the mes-
senger, Argephontes, drew near, leading down the
spirits ofthe wooers slain by Odysseus and the two,
seized with wonder, went straight toward them when
they beheld them. And the spirit of Agamemnon,
son of Atreus, recognized the dear son of Melaneus,
glorious Amphimedon, who had been his host,
dwelling in Ithaca, Then the spirit         oftheson of
‘Atreus spoke frst to fim and
   ΑΙ have given το ἀεῦλα the meaning proper to Keto
{win the108. pric
vii           ἡOtherwise
                    econ wemust forthe
                                 renderpee
                                       “make them ready
                                                    ον

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_420>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 106-134
    “Amphimedon, what has befallen you that ye
hhave come down beneath the dark earth, all ‘of
you picked men and of like age? One would make
no other choice, were one to pick the best men ina
city. Did Poseidon smite you on board your ships,
trite he had roused cruel winds and long waves?
Or did foemen work you harmon the land, while you
were cutting off their cattle and fair locks of sheep,
or while they fought in defence of their city and
their women? Tell me what I ask; for I declare
that I am a friend of thy house. Dost thou not
remember when I eame thither to your house with
  odlike Menelaus to urge Odysseus to go with us to
  lios onthe benched ships? A fall month it took us
‘to cross all the wide sea, for hardly could we win to
our will Odysseus, the sacker of cities.”
    ‘Then the spirit of Amphimedon answered him,
and said: “Most glorious son of Atreus, king of
men, Agamemnon, I remember all these things,0
thou fostered of Zeus, even as thou dost tell them;
and on my part I will frankly tell thee all the truth,
how for us an evil end of death was wrought. We
‘wooed the wife of Odysseus, that had long been gone,
and she neither refused the hateful marriage, nor
would she ever makeanend,devising for us death and
black fate. Nay, she contrived in her heart this guile-
ful thing also: she set up in her halls a great web,
and fell to weaving—fine of thread was the web and
very wide; and straightway she spoke among us :
    @eYoung men, my wooers, since goodly Odysseus
is dead, be patient, though eager for my marriage,
until I'finish this’ robe—I would not that my
spinning should come to naught—a shroud for the
lord Laertes against the time when the fell fate of
   °                                  ‘            au

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_422>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 135-162
 grievous death shall strike him down; lest any of
 the Achaean women in the land should be wroth at
me, if he were to lie without a shroud, who had won
  eat possessions.”
SiSoshespoke, and our proud hearts consented.
‘Then day by day she would weave at the great web,
 but by night would unravel it, when she had let
 place torches by her. ‘Thus for three years she by
 her craft kept the Achaeans from Knowing, and
beguiled them; but when the fourth year came, as
the seasons rolled on,asthe months waned and many.
days were brought in their course, even then one of
her women who knew all, told us, and we caught her
unravelling the splendid web. So she finished it
against her will perforce.
   “Now when she had shewn us the robe, after
weaving the great web and washing it, and it shone
like the sun or the moon, then it was that some
cruel god brought Odysseus from somewhere
to the border of the land, where the swineherd
dwelt. Thither too came the dear son of
Odysseus on his return from sandy Pylos in his
black ship, and these two, when theyhadplanned an
evil death for the wooers, came to the famous city,
Odysseus verily later, but Telemachus led the
way before him. Now the swincherd brought his
master, clad in mean raiment, in the likeness of
ἃ woeful and aged beggar, leaning on a staff, and
miserable was the raiment that he wore about his
body; and not one of us could know that it was he,
when’ he appeared so suddenly, no, not even those
that were older men, but we assailed him with evil
words and with missiles. Howbeit he with steadfast
                                               ans

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_424>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 163-190
heart endured foratime to be pelted and taunted
in his own halls; but when at lest the will of Zeus,
who bears the aegis, roused him, with the help of
Telemachus he took all the beautiful arms and laid
them avay in the store-room and made fast the
bolts. ‘Then in his great cunning he bade his wife
set before the wooers his bow and the grey fron
to be a contest for us illfated men and the be-
ginning of death, And no man of us was able to
stretch the string of the mighty bow; nay, we fell
far short of that strength. But when the great bow
came to the hands of Odysseus, then we all cried
fout aloud not to give him the bow, how much
soever he might speak; but Telemachus alone urged
him on, and bade him take it. ‘Then he took the
how in his hand, the much-endaring, goodly Odysseus,
tnd with ease did he string it aed send an arrow
through the iron. ‘Then he went and stood on the
threshold, and poured out the swift arrows, glaring
about him terribly, and smote king Antinous. And
‘thereafter upon the others he with sure aim let fy his
shafts, fraught with groanings, and the men fell thick
and fast. Thenwasit known that somegod wastheir
helper; for straightway rushing on through the halls
in their fury they slew men left and right, and
therefrom rose hideous groaning, as heads were
smitten, and all the floor swam with blood. ‘Thus
 we perished, Agamemnon, and even now our bodies
 still lie uncaredefor in the halls of Odysseus;for our
friends in each man’s home know naught as. yet—
 our friends who might wash the black blood’ from
 ‘our wounds and lay our bodies out with wailing;for
 thatisthe due of the dead.”
                                                  415

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_426>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. r91~-216
       Then the spirit of the son of Atreus answered
  him: “Happy son of Laertes, Odysseus of many
  devices, of a truth full of all excellence was
  thou didst win,sogood of understanding wasthepeer-   wife
  less Penelope, daughter of Iearius, in that she was
  loyally mindful of Odysseus, her wedded husband.
  Therefore the fame of her virtue shall never perish,
  bat the immortals shall make among men on
pleasant song in honour of constant Penelope.earthNota
 on this wise did the daughter of Tyndareus
 evil deeds and slay her wedded husband, and devise  hate-
fal shall the song regarding her be among men, and
evil repute doth she bring upon all womankind,
 even upon her that doeth uprightly.”
      ‘Thus the two spoke to one another, as they
stood in the house of Hades beneath the depths of
the earth.
      But Odysseus and his men, when they had gone
down from the city, quickly came to the fair and
well-ordered farm of Laertes, which he had won for
himself in days past, and much had he toiled
therefor. There was his house, and all about it
ran the sheds in which ate, and sat, and slept the
servants that were bondsmen, that did his pleasure;
ut within it was an old Sicilian woman, who tended
the old man with kindly eare there at the farm, far
from the ity. Then Odysseus spoke tothe servants
and to his son, saying:
      “Do you now go within the well-built house,
               chtway slay for dinner the best of the
            mat I will make trial of my father, and
sacle efrone may beta the labourofruling the
 land, but.we mayalso thinkof               es having be n
ΠΣ
ΓΝ                                 ξεν               ae fs
                                                      “ἢ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_428>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 217-247
see whether he will recognize me and know me bj
sight,  or whether he will fal to know me, since ἢ
have been gone so long atime.”
   So saying, he gave to the slaves his battle-gear.
‘They thereafter went quickly to the house; but
Odysseus drew near to the fruitful vineyard in his
quest, Now he did not find Dolius as he went down
into the great orchard, nor any of his slaves or of
his sons, but as it chanced they had gone to gather
stones for the vineyard wall, and the old man was
their lender. But he found his father alone in the
well-ordered vineyard, digging about a plant; and he
was clothed in ἃ foul tunic, patched and wretched,
and about his shins he had bound stitched greaves
of oxchide to guard against scratches, and he wore
gloves upon his hands because of the thorns, and on
his head a goatskin cap; and he nursed his sorrow.
Now when the mach-enduring, goodly Odyssens caw
hhim, worn with old age and laden with great grief
at heart, he stood still beneath ἃ tall pear tree, and
shed tears, Then he debated in mind and heart
whether to kiss and embrace his father, and tell him
all, how he had returned and come to his native land,
or whether he should first question him, and prove
him in each thing. And,    ashepondered, thisseemed
to him thebettercourse,toprove him first with mock-
ing words, So  with this n mind the goodly Odysseus
went straight toward him, He verilywas holding his
head down, digging about a plant, and his glorious
son came up to him, and addressed him, saying :
   “Old man, no lack of skill hast thou to tend a
garden ;nay, thy care is good, and there isnaught
whatsoever, either plantorfig tree, or vine, nay, or
olive, or pear, or garden-plot in all the field that
                                                   “9

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_430>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 248-276
 lacks care. But another thing will I tell thee, and
 do thou not lay up wrath thereat in thy heart: thou
thyself enjoyest no good care, but thou bearestwoeful
 old age, and therewith art foul and unkempt, and
 lad in’ mean raiment. Surely it is not because of
 sloth on thy part that thy master cares not for thee,
 nor dost thou seem in any wise like a slave to look
 upon either in form or in stature; for thou art likes
 kking, even like one who, when he has bathed and
 eaten, should sleep soft; for this is the way of old
 men.” But come, tell me this, and declare it truly.
 Whose slave art ‘thou, and whose orchard dost thou
 tend? And tell me this also truly, that Imay know
 fall well, whether this is indeed Ithaca, to which we
 are now come, as aman yonder told me, who met me
 but now on my way hither. In no wise over sound
 of wit was he, for he deigned not to tell me of each
 thing, nor to listen to my word, when I questioned
 him about a friend of mine, whether haply he still
 lives,oris now dead and in the house of Hades. For
 I will tell thee, and do thou give heed and hearken.
 Tonce entertained in my dear native land aman that
 ‘came to our house, and never did any man beside of
 strangers that dwell afar come to my house a more
 welcome guest. He declared that by lineage he
 came from Ithaca, and said that hisownfather was
 Laertes, son of Arceisius. So I took him to the
 house and gave him entertainment with kindly wel-
 come of the rich store that was within, and Igave
 him gifts of friendship, suchas aremeet. Of well-
 wrought gold I gave him seven talents, and a mixing-
 bowl all of silver, embossed with flowers, and twelve
 cloaks of single fold, and as many coverlets, and as
                                                   431

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_432>>>
"THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 277-301
    many fair mantles, and as many tunics besides, and
    furthermore women, skilled in goodly handiwork,
    four comely women, whom he himself was minded
    to choose.”
        Then hisfather answered him, weeping: “Stranger,
'   verily thou art come to the country of which thou
    dost ask, but wanton  andreckless men now possess it.
'   ‘And all in vain didst thou bestow those gifts, the
    counties its thou gavest For if thou hadst found
    hhim yet alive in the land of Ithaca, then would he
    have sent thee on thy way with ample requital of gifts
    ‘and good entertainment} for that is the due of him
    who begins the kindness. But come, tell me this, and
    declare it truly. How many years have passed since
    thou didst entertain that guest, that hapless guest,
    my son—as sure as ever such a man there was—my
    ill-starred son, whom far from his friends and his
    native land haply the fishes have devoured in the
    deep, or on the shore he has become the spoil of
    beasts   andbirds? Nor did his mother deck him for
    burial and weep over him, nor his father, we who
    gave him birth, no, nor did his wife, wooed with
    many gifts, constant Penelope, bewail her own, hus-
    band upon the bier, aswasmeet, when she had closed
    hhis eyes in death; though that is the due of the
    dead. And tell me thisalso truly, that I may know
    full ‘well. Who art thou among men, and from
    whence? Where is thy city, and where thy parents ?
    Where is the swift ship moored that brought thee
    hither with thy godlike comrades? Or didst thou
    come as a passenger on another's ship, and did they
    depart when they had set thee on shore?”
      1 Pouibly, “richly-dowered.”
    ‘shountful?    endbeyr oor only Others    render shmply
                                    Sn this phrase.
                                                       43

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_434>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 302-323
   ‘Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Then verily will I frankly tell thee all. I
come from Alybas,t where I have a glorious house,
and I am the son of Apheidas,sonof lord Polypemon,
and my own name is Eperitus. But a god drove me
wandering from Sicania to come hither against my
will and my ship lies yonder off the tilled land away
from the city. Butasfor Odysseus, it is now the fifth
year since he went thenee, and departed from my
country. Hapless man! Yet he had birds of good
omen, When he set out, birds upon the right. 801
was glad of them, as I'sent him on his way, and he
went gladly forth, and our hearts hoped ‘that we
should yet meet as host and guest and give one
another glorious gifts.”
   So he spoke, and a dark cloud of grief enwrapped
Laertes, and with both his hands he took the dark
dust and strewed it over his grey head with ceaseless
       ing. Then the heart of Odysseus     wasstirred,
and up through his nostrils? shot a keen pang,
as he beheld his dear father. And he spran
toward him, and clasped him in his arms, and Kiss
him, saying:
   “Lo, father, I here before thee, my very self, am
that man of whom thou dost ask; Tam come in the
twentieth year to my native land, But cease from
 perce ss     enna                   eee
 ouἜΣcommty σαὶ ἕως δος ten yt     aarasng
                                                δΚΕ
                                                 ύο ὃς
   seit    mr              τα         Ἢ
 ἕῳ inclined:ratherto take the phrase aa indicative of
meister                        gat
 passion ina more general sense:      lated nostrile of an
theimagery frequent ἴαtho Old Testament,    and ¢/-
critur
   i,18snd Herodas
               vi.δ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_436>>>
7
              THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 324-348
    grief and tearful lamenting, for I will tell thee all,
    though great is the need of haste. ‘The wooers have
    Islain in our halls, and have taken vengeance           on
    their grievous insolence and their evil deeds.”
       Then Laertes answered him again, and
    it is indeed as Odysseus, my son, that thou said:      « If
                                                     art eeme
    hither, tell me now some clear sign, that I me, be
    sure.”             d
       And Odysseus of many wiles answered him and
    said: “This scar first do thou mark with thine eyes,
    the sear of the wound which a boar dealt me with
    his white tusk on Parnassus, when I had gone thither.
    Tt was thou that didst send me forth, thou and my
    honoured mother, to Autolycus, my mother’s father,
    that I might get the gifts which, when he came
    hither, he promised and agreed to give me. And
    come, I will tell thee also the trees in the well-
    ordered garden which once thou yavest me, and I,
    who was but a child, was following thes through the
    garden, and asking ‘thee for this and that. It was
    through these very.trees that we passed, and thou
    didst name them, and tell me of each one. Pear
    trees thirteen thou gavest me, and ten apple-trees,
    and forty fig-trees. And rows of vines too didst thou
    promise to give me, even as I say, fifty  ofthem, which
    Tipened severally at different times—and upon them
    are clusters of all sorts—whensoever the seasons of
    Zeus weighed them down from above.”?
       So he spoke, and his father’s knees were loosened
    where he stood, and his heart melted, as he knew
    the sure tokens which Odysseus told him. About
    his dear son he flung both his arms, and the much-
    enduring, goodly Odysseus caught’ him unto him
               Δι δα. made them heary with fruitage.
                                                          “1

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_438>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 349-375
 fainting. But when he revived, and his spirit re-
 turned again into his breast, once more he made
 answer, and spoke, saying:
    « Father Zeus,verilyye gods yet hold sway on high
 Olympus, if indeed the wooers have paid the price
 of their wanton insolence. But now I have wondrous
read at heart, lest straightway all the men of Ithaca
come hitheragainst us, and send messengers every-
‘where to the cities of the Cephallenians.”
    ‘Then Odysseusofmany wiles answered him, and
said: “Be of good cheer, and let not these things
distress thy heart. But let us go tothe house, which
lies near the orchard, for thither I sent forward Tele-
tmachus and the neatherd and the swincherd, that
‘with all speed they might prepare our meal.”
    So spoke the two, and went their way to the
goodly house. And when they had come to the
stately house, they found Telemachus, and the
neatherd, and the swineherd carving flesh in abun-
dance, and mixing the flaming wine.
    ‘Meanwhile the Sicilian handmaid bathed great-
hearted Laertes in his house, and anointed him with
oil, and about him castafaircloak. But Athene drew
near, and made greater the limbs of the shepherd
of the people, and made him taller than before and
mightier to behold. Then he came forth from the
bath, and his dear son marvelled at him, seeing him
in presence like unto the immortal gods. And he
spoke, and addressed him with winged words :
    “Father, surely some one of the gods that are
forever has made thee goodliertobehold in eomeli-
ness and in stature.”
    ‘Then wise Laertes answered him: “1 would, O
                                                   429

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_440>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 376-40x
     father Zeus, and Athene, and Apollo, that in such
     strength as when I took Nericus,
     citadel on the shore of the mainland,thewhenwell-built
                                                     I was
     lord of the Cephallenians, even in such strength
     hhad stood by thy side yesterday in our house withI
     my armour about my shoulders, and had beaten back
     the wooers, So should I have loosened the knees
     of many of them in the halls, and thy heart would
     have been made glad within thee.”
        So they spoke to one another.
     others had ceased from their labour, But
                                           and
                                                 when the
     ready the meal, they sat down in order on had
                                                 the
                                                      made
                                                     chairs
     and high seats. ‘Then they were
     to their food, when the old man about
                                       Dolius
                                              to set hands
                                                drew near,
     and with him the old man’s sons, wearied
     their work in the fields, for their mother, from   the
     old Sicilian woman, had gone forth and called them,
|   she who saw to their food, and tended the old man
    with kindly care, now that old age had laid hold
    of him. And they, when they saw Odysseus,
    marked -him in their minds, stood in the halls lostandin
    wonder, But Odysseus addressed them with gentle
    ‘words, and said:
        “Old man, sit down to dinner, and do
    forget your wonder, for long have we waitedye wholly
    halls, though eager to set hands to the food,in everthe
    ‘expecting your coming.”
         ο he spoke, and Dolius ran straight toward him
    with both hands outstretched, and he clasped the
    hand of Odysseus and kissed it on the wrist,
    spoke, and addressed him with winged words: and
       “Dear master, since thou hast come back τὸ us,
    who sorely longed for thee, but had no more thought
    to see thee, and the gods themselves have brought
                                                       430

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_442>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 402-428
 thee—hail to thee, and all welcome, and may the
gods grant thee happiness. And tell me this also
truly, that I may know full well. Does wise Pene-
lope ‘yet know surely that thou hast come back
hither, or shall we send her a messenger?”
   Then Odysseus of many wiles answered him, and
said: “Old man, she knows already ;why shouldst
thou be busied with thi
   So he spoke, and the other sat down again on the
polished chair. And even in like manner the sons of
Dolius gathered around glorious Odysseus   andgreeted
hhim in speech, and clasped his hands, ‘Then they
sat down in order beside Dolius, their father.
   So they were busied with their meal in the halls ;
but meanwhile Rumour, the messenger, went swiftly
thoughout all the city, telling of the terrible death
and fateofthe wooers, And the people heard it all
at once, and gathered from every side with moanings
and wailings before the palace of Odysseus. Forth
from the halls they brought each his dead, and
buried them; and those from other cities ‘they
sent each to his own home, placing them on swift
ships for seamen to bear them, but they themselves
went together to the place of assembly, sad at heart.
Now when they were assembled and met together
Eupeithes arose and spoke among them, for com-
fortless grief for his son lay heavy on his heart, even
for Antinous, the first man whom goodly Odysseus
had slain, Weeping for him he addressed their
assembly and sai
   “Friends, a monstrous deed has this man of ἃ
truth devised against the Achaeans. Some he led
forth in his ships, many men and goodly, and he has
lost his hollow ships and utterly lost his men; and
                                                    433

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_444>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 429-455
others again has he slain on his return, and these
by far the best of the Cephallenians. ΝᾺ then,
‘come, before the fellow goes swiftlytoPylos or to
‘goodly Elis, where the Epeans hold sway, let us_go
forth ; verily even in days to come shall we be dis
graced forever. For a shame is this even for men
that are yet to be to hear of, if we shall not take
vengeance on the slayers ofour sons and our brothe1
To me surely life would then no more be sweet;
rather would I die at once and be among the dead,
Nay, let us forth, lest they be too quick for us, and
cross over the sea.”
    So he spoke, weeping, and pity Inid hold  ofallthe
‘Acheane’”    Tien   neat them  came   Medon   and. the
divine minstrel from the halls of Odysseus, for sleep
had released them ; and they took their stand in the
midst, and wonder seized every man. ‘Then Medon,
wise of heart, spoke among them:
    ““Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, for ve
not without the will of the immortal gods has
Odysseus devised these deeds. Nay, I myself saw
tn immortal god, who stood close beside Odysseus,
and seemed in all things like unto Mentor. Yet as
an immortal god now in front of Odysseus would he
appear, heartening him, and now again would rage
through the hall, scaring the wooers; and they fell
thick and fast.”
    So he spoke, and thereat pale fear seized them all
‘Then among them spoke the old lord Halitherses,
son ofMastor, for he alone saw before and after: he
with good intent addressed their assembly, and said:
    “ Hearken now to me, men of Ithaca, to the word
that I shall say, Through your own cowardice,
friends, have these deeds been brought to pass,
                                                    435

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_446>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 456-482
 for you would not obey me, nor Mentor, shepherd
 ‘of the people, to make your sons cease from their
 folly. ‘They wrought ἃ monstrous deed in their
 blind and wanton wickedness, wasting the wealth
 and dishonouring the wife of a prince, who, they
 said, would never more return. Now then ‘be it
 thus; and do you hearken to me, as I bid. Let us
 not go forth, lest haply many one shail find ἃ
 bane which he has brought upon himseli”         =
    So he spoke, but. they sprang up with loud eries,
 more than half of them, but the rest remained
together in their seats; for his speech was not to
their mind, but they hearkened to Eupeithes, and
 quickly thereafter ‘they rushed for their arm
‘Then when they had clothed their bodies in gleaming
 bronze, they gathered together in front of the
spacious city. And Eupeithes led them in his folly,
for he thought to avenge the slaying of his son
yet he was himself never more to come back, but
‘was there to meet his doom.
    But Athene spoke to Zeus, son of Gronos, saying:
«Father of us all, thou son’ of Cronos, high above
all lords, tell to me that ask thee what purpose
thy mind now hides within thee. Wilt thou yet
farther bring to pass evil war and the dread din
of battle, or wilt thou establish friendship betwixt
the twain?””
    Then Zeus, the cloud-gatherer, answered her, and
said: “My child, why dost thou ask and question
me of this? Didst thou not thyself devise this plan,
that verily Odysseus should take vengeance on these
men at his coming? Do as thou wilt, but I will
tell thee what is fitting. Now that goodly Odysseus
hhas taken vengeance on the wooers, let them swear
                                                  437

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_448>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 483-507
   solemn oath, and let him be king all his days,
 let us on our part bring about ἃ forgetting of andthe
 slaying of their sons and brothers; and let them
 love one another as before, and let wealth and
 peace abound.”
    So saying, he roused Athene, who was already
 eager, and she went darting down from the heights
 of Olympus.
    But when they had put from them the desire
 of honey-hearted food, the much-enduring, goodly
 Odysseus was the first to speak among his
saying: “Let one go forth and see whethercompany,
                                              they be
not now drawing near.”
    So he spoke, and a son of Dolius went forth, he
bade; he went and stood upon the threshold, as and
saw them all close at hand, and straightway
spoke to Odysseus winged words: ‘Here they arehe
close at hand. Quick, let us arm.
   So he spoke, and they rose up and arrayed them-
selves in armour :Odysseus and his men were four,
and six the sons of Dolius, and among them Laertes
and Dolius donned theirarmour, grey-headed though
they were, warriors perforce. But when they had
clothed their bodies in gleaming bronze, they
opened the doors and went forth, and Odysseus led
them,
   Then Athene, daughter of Zeus, drew near them
in the likeness of Mentor both in form and in voice,
and the much-enduring, goodly Odysseus was glad
at sight of her,andstraightway spoke to Telemachus,
his dearson:' “
   “Telemachus, now shalt thou learn this—having
thyself come to the place of battle, where the best
warriors are put to the               i

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_450>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 508-534
 upon the house of thy fathers, for we have ever ex:
 celled in strength and in valour over all the earth.”
    ‘And wise Telemachus answered him: “Thou shalt
 see me, if thou wilt, dear father, in my present
 temper bringing no disgrace upon thy house, even
as thou sayest.”
    So said he, and Laertes was glad, and spoke,
saying: “What a day 15 this for me, kind gods!
 Verily right glad am I: my son and my son's son
are vying with one another in valour.”
    ‘Then fashing-eyed Athene came near him and
said: Son of Arecisius, far the dearest of all my
friends, make a prayer to the flashing-eyed maiden
and to father Zeus, and then straightway raise aloft
‘thy long spear, and hurl it.”
    So spoke Pallas Athene, and breathed into him
great might. Then he prayed to the daughter of
great Zeus, and straightway raised aloft his long
spear, and hurled it, and smote Eupeithes through
the helmet with cheek-piece ofbronze. This stayed
not the spear, bat the bronze passed through, and
he fell with a thud, and his armour clanged about
him. Then on the foremost fighters fell Odysseus
and his glorious son, and thrust at them with swords
‘and double-pointed spears: And now would they
have slain them all, and cut them off from returning,
had not Athene, daughter of Zeus, who bears the
         shouted aloud, and checked all the host,
   “refrain, men of Ithaca, from grievous war, that
with all speed you may ‘part, and that without
bloodshed.”
   So spoke Athene, and pale fear seized them. Then
in their terror the arms flew from their hands and
                                                     ἧς

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_452>>>
THE ODYSSEY, XXIV. 535-548
fell one and all to the ground,asthe goddess uttered
her voice, and they turned toward the city, eager to
save their lives. Terribly then shouted the much.
enduring, goodly Odysseus, and gathering himself
together he swooped upon’ them like an eagle of
lofty fight, and at that moment the son of Cronos
cast. a flaming thunderbolt, and down it fell before
‘the lashing-eyed daughter of the mighty sire. Then
flashing-eyed Athene spoke to Odysscus saying:
   “Son of Laertes, sprang from Zeus, Odysseus of
many devices, stay thy hand, and make the strife of
‘equal war το cease, lest haply the son of Cronos be
‘wroth with thee, even Zeus, whose voice is borneafar.”
   So spoke Atliene, and he obeyed, and was glad at
heart, ‘Then for all time to come a solemn covenant
betwixt the twain was made by Pallas Athcne,
daughter of Zeus, who bears the aegis, in the likeness
of Mentor both in form and in voice.
       1 Pomibly banefel”;  seethenoteonii,286,




     :                                             443

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_466>>>
THE       LOEB         CLASSICAL
                      LIBRARY
       VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED


AMMIANUS
   Vols, 1. and MARCELLINUS.
                 If, Ynd Insp. revived.) J. C. Rolf. 3 Vois,
ADULEIUS. THE GOLDEN ASS (METAMOR-
  THOSESY,_W. Adlington (1800). Reved by. Gass
si AUGUSTINE,
fi          eevee, adh   CONFESSIONSmaVol OF.  Τρ 5h W.Fp.)Wats
 1. AUGUSTINE, SELECT LETTERS. 1.H.Baier,
Sughsius, ἢ, ὃς relma γήμας. 2 Vals.
BEDE, J.J King,3 Vols
BORTHIUS:’ TRACTS axe DE CONSOLATIONE
  BHILOSOPHIAE. er Hi P. Stewart an BK
 Rand (th
cABSAR   fs WARS, A.6,Pesket. ( fe
       CIVIL
cATULLUS
  Henin aapαν, URVIGILLUM
               ΑΝ, Chin, ripuLLUS.
                          VENERIN 7.J.B.W:
CHLSUS: DEDi,MED taxa, W. G Spence. 8 Vols.
    i BRUPES tp
CICERO          ea)ORATOR. 6. L. Hendsictson
 «πὰHM. Hubbel. (ndImp.)
                               1

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_467>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
CICERO: DR FATO: PARADOXA STOICORU!
  DETARTINONE ORATOIUA. H.Kuckhan, (With
CICERO!BE FINIBUS,                 HL Rackham.      (Grd Imp.
c{gEH6)   pe waTuna DEORUM ax» ACADENICA,
     ackham.
CICERO: DE OFFICUS. Water Mile, (4 Zmp.)
CIGEKO: DEORATORE. “EW Sutton ant 'H,
  Rackham,
CICERO
 ten  W,   DE KEFUBLICA
          Ker      Gnd  Imp)    ax DE LEGIBUS.
αἰδανο      BE ΡΝWe ΟΝ Falconer.
  DIVINATIONE.                   πε, De (thamtorrta,
                                               Imp.)         be
CICERO;
  SULEA, INPRO'PEACCO.
                CATILINAM, ‘LouPROB MUIGNA,
                                          Lords (itn       Pro
CICERO?
 Sful
    Vols,  LETTERS
           (Vol  1. δὰ  τὸZeyaATTICUS.
                                Vol   Ul 8rdB. Ἴαρ.
                                                0. Winsted
                                                      and Vol,
     398)
CICERO:
  Wane,    TRITERS
            τὸ Vo       TO HIS
                       (vols   [and  FRIENDS.
                                      Ind      Ja)  W. Glynn
cue PiltriatS                    GA Ker a
Giceno:     "rnd    anchia,       Post ΠΡΟ ΟΝ. pe
  DOMO, DE HARUSPIGUM RESPONSIS, 'PRO
  PLANCIO. ἮΝ,ἘΣ Watts. (2ndJnp.)
CICERO:    PRO'CAECINA,
  PRO OLUENTIO.       PRO RABINO. PRO LEGE       MANILIA,
                                           Ii. Grose     Hodge,
  (2ndImp.) PRO MILONE, IN PISONEM, PRO
CICERO?”
  ‘SCAURO, PRO FONTEIG, PRO RABIRIO Pos-
  TUMO,   PRO MARCELLO,
  REGE DEIOTARO,             PRO LIGARIO, PRO
                    Ν. H. Watts.
CICERO:   PRO QUINCTIO,
  PRO ROSCIO.   COMOEDO,PRO CONTRA
                               ROSCIO AMERINO,
                                       RULLUM.
αἰεπονἀνFeSOOLAN BiseutatiONs, J.B. King.
οἶδεν
  wood ὁ  VeRRINE ORATIONS. L. ἡ. G. Green
       Vol,
CUNGBIAN,
COLUMELEA'  it,Patonuer,_RUSHICA™
              DERE           9 Vols HLB. Ash. ὁ Vols,
  vali Beaks Lave
                               2

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_468>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
CURTIUS,    Q.: HISTORY
  Holte, 9 Vols.  Vol.I. OF ALEXANDER. J.C.
FLORUS.οἶς 8, Yorstr: and CORNELIUS NEPOS,
FRONTINUS:       STRATAGEMS
  Ὁ Ἑ, Bennett and Μ᾽ B. McElwain,sm AQUEDUCTS.
FRONIO: CORRESPONDENCE. Ὁ. R. Haines. 9 Vols.
GELLIUS. J.C, Rolfe. $ Vols, "(Vol I. 2nd Imp.)
HORACE; ODES aro EPODES. Ὁ“, ‘Bennet. (120h
HORAvised νατιππο, ERISTLES, ARS PORTICA,
τ Ἐςἐξ
    Feirlough, (6h I
SUVENAL svn PERSIUS. Ὁ.Τὴ          G.Pek,
                                        Ramaay. Wei,(δέν Jp.)
ἸΑΝῪ ἐν δἰ    Fost F
as
 LUCAN.fare Vol Duit.
           "J.D.  the Ii,πὰand In.
                                Σ΄ send.
Eochind8)
MAHAL          Witt
              W.  G4.    KerBowe3   uh ΓΝ,
                                   Vole       Οὐδ LM imp,
  Vol. Il. SrdImp, rooted),
MINOR’ LATIN’ PORTS:* from Posuuav Sxace to
  Tors
  Sicunis,  Nacaruxvs, Avrases,
           Niwascares,     includingwithGnarrios,   Cacronsr03
  anaes,
   (ondJ     poems. Wight Duff end Ατοοιὰ M.Phoenix”
                                            “Aetna,”      Dull
ovib:   "ile
  J.B. Mozley, ART
                 (Gnd OF   LOVE
                       Jnp.)         ax     OTHER      POEMS,
OVID:
OVID. HEROIDES axoJames
         TAS,    “Bie          G.raze, Grant Showerman,
                           AMORES.
οἱ Ὁ Shnuacagtoses, 2, αι ste.» Yn
  (SrdImp.)

CUBS REG os BEM, κι τς Wie,
MRS
  AOS          nna,det          rues     ὙΝ
                                       eee
κι ed hak ie RATA,                        i    a
 EteΜὲ LeEHHitehingon, Vals”Ras tannin
 Laas
ΤᾺΝ
    9                    5
                                (Vole 1 0hImp Vol

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_469>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
PLINY: NATURAL IISTORY. 1H, Rackham and
  W.H.S, Jones HB.
PROPERHIUS.          10 Vols.ButlerVols.(Sth L-IV.Zmp.)(Vol T.2nd Imp.)
QUINTILIAN. 11.διButler, ἃ Vols.” (ond Jmp.)
REMAINS
  ‘Vols. Vol,OF (Ennius
                   OLD' LATIN.            Ἐ- Hi. Warmington. 4
                              andCaecilius).            VolIL.(Livius,
  Naevius, Pacuvius, Accius). Vol. IIL (Lucilius,                 Laws
  of the XII Tables).” Vol. IV. (Archaic Tnseriptions).
SALLUST. J. C.Rolfe. πὰ Imp.revised)
SCRIPTORES HISTORIAE AUGUSTAE. Ὁ, Magic,
  '3Vols, (Vol. I. 2ndJmp.revived.)
SENECA: APFOCOLOCYNTOSIS. Of, PETRONIUS,
SENECA; EPISTULAR MORALES. Ἐ, Μ, Gummere.
  8 Vols," (Vol. 1. ϑγὰ Jmp., Vols. Il. and ΠῚ. πὰ Jp,
   ested) MORAL ESSAYS. J. W. Basore. 8 Vols
 SENECA:
   (Vol.
 SENECA,        It2nd         Jp,reused) "P.J.Mills, @Volx (Vol.
                     TRAGEDIES.
   cd J,VellaTip,rind)»
   9  ONTUR,Vols. PORIIS
                       V o l     I .       ANBLETTERS. W. 3,Anderson
 SILIUSITALICUS, J.D.Duf, 9 Vols (VolIL 2ndImp.
 STATIUS. “JH. Moziey,
SUBTONIUS,                            Can        2 Vols,
                                                   Valu (Vo 1.6 Inpy
     el Th,5 fp
TACITUS:
  COLAain             DIALOGUS,
                          CERMANIA.” |          SixNasi
                                                    Wm,Peterson:
                                                             Hatton,ὁ. aud(3h AGRI-
                                                                               Imp)
TACITUS?
   ‘and J, Jackson,    HISTORIES               ano   ANNALS,
                                      4 Vols. “(Vols2 Vol
                                                        I. and (Vo       IE
                                                                il. 2nd Gin,
                                                                           Jp.Moore
TERENCE:
     ak ILδὲαTop.        ohm          Sargeant
TERTULLIAN?
   "ER,         Glover:              APOLOGIATELIX.
                               MINUCIUS             ayn DE ὁ.SPECTACULIS,
                                                                  H, μὲν.
                                                                      Rendall
VALERIUS
VAIO:              DE FLACCUS.
                             LINGUA          J.H.
                                             LATINA,Mosley,
                                                          “it.(nd
                                                               G.  Kent.   revived.)
                                                                             9 Vola
   (nd I
VELEEES
  AUGUST.              pavERCULUS
                              F.     W. Shipley.   ayo RES OESTAR DIV!
VIRGIL, H.W. Faiclough.” 9 Vols. (Vol. 160hImp.
VITRUVIUS:
  (Wol Ld mp.)
                         4 DEXRCHIPECTORA, . τιF. Grange.       Granger.9 Vols
                                       4

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_470>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY

                    ‘OnEEK AUTHORS
ACHILLES TATIUS. 5. Gaselee.
AENEAS ‘TACTICUS, ASCLEPIODOTUS axo ONA-
  SANDER. TheὉ,illino's
AESCHINES,         Ὁ, Adame,Greele Club.
AESCHYLUS, H. Welr Smyth. 9 Vols. (Vol I. 5th Imp
  Vol. I dth mp.)
APOLLODORUS) sirJamesG. Frazer. 2 Vols. (2nd Jp.)
‘APOLLONIUS RHODIUS. ἘΝ.C.Seaton. (4h Imp.)
THE{VoAPOSTOLIC
       τ δὰ Dem VolFATHERS.
                        TL mn)Kirsopp Lake. 2 Volx
APPIAN'S ROMAN MISTORY. “Horace White. 4 Vols
ARATE, Morimp,Arti Vols ΠΙᾺ    ΜΠ and lV. 2nd Imp.)
                          acHUs,
               WES, “Benjamin Bickley Rogers. 8 Vols
 (dis Tap.) Vere
AMISTOPLE:       rane
              “ART  OP RHETORIC. J. I. Freese
  (ond
ASCH,   n p ) anapNtan    constiryrion,   uDE-
  MIAN ETHICS,
 (nd Inp.)
                 VIICTUDS ax  VICES. H. Raccham,
anid. GENERATION OF ANIMALS. A. ἵν
ARISTOTLE:
  Sd Fn METAPHYSICS. H. Tredennick. 9 Vols
ASIOHE,           MINOR
                    Tunas WORKS,
  Couovns, Os Ox"δελανκίχοῦν Hann,”      W. 5. πος, OxOr
                                        Pavoasouia,
  Prawn
  Prone,     Ox   lxarenace    Tinos,
                              Loves,    Haun,
                                      Servers   Muongszeue
                                                 ax Nass
  or  Winpe’Ox
allsndtte,”       Maison,   Xerorsanan,
                  NiCOMACHEAN            azo   Conots
                                         EHUCS. "Tack
   ba.    (A   np    ae
ARISTONLE,"GECONOMICA,
  TIA.” G.δ᾽Armstrong. (\VilsayoMetaphysis,
   ia os me neaves. ¥..6 onn
                                          MAGNA Vol:MORA-TL)
AAEBM,
HEGEL,
 ΕΝ        ox pin aoc,ganea gona,
 ὋΝ BREATH. WS. Hett. “(nd imp. revised.)
                             ὃ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_471>>>
TUE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
  ARISTOTLE: ORGANON. H. P, Cooke and H. Tre:
   ‘dennik. 8 Vols. Vol.I.
 ARISTOTLE: PARTS GF ANIMALS, A. Τα Peck;
   MOTION AND(udPROGRESSION.
 ABSEQERE                   ine)                 OF ‘ANIMALS:
                    HYSICS.”     Rev. P. Wicksteed    andB.M,
AARISTOTLE:
   Genter 3Val             (Val  αι θὰ  Fup)
                   POETICS saoTONGINUS. W, Hamil
         Fyfer DEMETRIUS ON SIYLE, W. Rhys
   Robern’ (ah dnp. . fein)
 ARISTOTLE: POLITICS. 'H,Rackham. (2nd Inp.)
ARISTOTLE: PROBLEMS. Ὑ. 5. Hett. 2 Vols
ARISTOTLE: RHETORICA AD ALEXANDRUM,
   Ἡς Rackham, (WithProblems,          Vol.
 ARMIAN: HISTORY OF ALEXANDER axo INDICA,
   Rev. Ἐς Iliffe Robson. 2 Vols,
ATHENAEUS: DEIPNOSOPHISTAR, 6. B, Gullek,
   1 Vol, (Vols ¥. and ΥἹ Sud Imp.)
 SE BASIE: LETTERS, HJ.                    Deferan, Vel.ας
CALLIMACHUS xp "LYCOPHRON. A.
   ARATUS. Ὁ.π΄Mai,
CLEMENT oF "ALEXANDRIA. Rer.G.W. Butterworth,
     ‘Offs, or
DEMOSTHENES! oRPIAN,
 TPEGAHONE CAὩΣ View
                  -CORONA   ave DB._FALSA
                       ood 30    Vice “nd
DitloSitNes;  μεῖρτλθ,ARIGIOGETION.
 GUATES, HMOCRATES      aNDROTION, ARISTO-ML
     Vinee,
 DEMOSTHENES: OLYNTHIACS, PHILIPPICS axo
    MINOR ORATIONS: I-XVIL. ano XX. J. H. Vinee,
DEMOSTHENES: PRIVATE ORATIONS” asp IN
    NEAPRAM. “A Murray. SVol (Vol nd Παρ.
DIO CASSIUS: ROMAN HISTORY. I,Cary. Ὁ Vols
     (Vals. Τ and {1 2nd Imp.)
DIO. CHRYSOSTOM. δ᾽ Vols. Vole. 1, and II. J. W.
    Coteon. VolIl. W.Colcon and i. Lamar Crosby.
  οι ἐν,
pidbonus           rosy.
  Vols,LV. ‘siGuLusoe     H. Olifather, 12 Vols
                         μ᾿
DIOGENES LAKIETUS.“RB, atcks, 9 Voln (Vol
 1rdIng Vo Sdn)

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_472>>>
THE LOKB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
DIONYSIUS
  QUITIES, OF"Splna’s
                HALICARNASSUS:
                      translation roviedROMAN
                                           by ANTI-
                                               Cary.
EPICTETUS.        Wok. ‘Oldfather.       2 Vols.    (Vol. 1. 2nd
BURIRIDES.
  th Jp, Vol A.ITT8. and
                     Way,TV.Sth4 Vols.
                                  dnp.)   (Vols
                                           Verse I.and Th
                                                 tran
eOSETUs.ccLRSIA
    keandJ.EL. Oulton,   SCAT 9 TiisOIY.
                                      Vols. (Vol. Kopp
                                                    Tle Sd
oft ON THE NATURAL FACULTIES. A.5.
mieci
              BUCOLIC PORTS (ruRocrirus,
  BION, MOSCIIUS). “J. M. linens." (Gok Imp.
ORG
 Guiaει κου
         Jae ANDBavwnue
                   LAMWUS Ὁ wow
                            Woo.” mun(ohANACRE-
                                           ead
it MATURMATICAL WORKS. Ivor Thomas,
HENODES,
HERODOTUS        7. 4D,
                      THEOPIIRASTUS;
                              Godie     ὁ     CHARACTERS.
                                            Vole   ak bel.
BESIOB'isp 7  Vale IV:
                 THE     and  J)
                        HOMERIC      HYMNS, Ἡ. G. Breiya
  Witter
HIPPOCRATES (0th inp.   τον     and enlarges)
                     κὰν τὴς FRAGMENTS              OF HERA-
  GuEITUS.
   Sea ep        W.it-S.Jonesand      #1,  Withington.    Velo
 WOMEN? ILIAD,
             ΦΡΥΒΘΚΥ.    A.TMunay.
                             AT.  Μααν,   9 Vols.
                                             2  Vota (th
                                                      (δε    Imp.)
                                                           ip)
TSAMUS. Se5.“Cesrge
ISOcRanes.          Forster. Norn
                               Gnd ὑπερ
                                     ταῦ LaRue Van Hook,
siSAPIL
    JOHNRenDAMASCENE:
             6, fe ood      BARLAAM
                                an    Hood ANDMatty.
                                                 I0A-
  [even be, 3. Thackeray and Ralph Marcus.
aGStPLTOS.
  OValy Vote
SULIAN.      Lil.Gave(Wal
          Whines     Weight  nd8Voln”tmp)(Wola I.nd11
  rd np)
                                τ

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_473>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
LONGUS: DAPHNIS axp CHLOE. Thornley's Trans-
  lation revised by J. M, Edmonds; saxo PARTHENIUS.
 S$.Gaseee. (Sraἧπερ.)
LUCIAN," A. ME Harmon, 8 γοις, Volu IV. νοι,
  Jana Th 3d In)
LYCOPHRON. ‘Gf:CALLIMACHUS.
LYRA GRABCA. J. Μ. Edmonds. 8 Vols. (Vol. 1.
  Srd Imp. Vol Il. Sud Ba.revisedand enlarged, Voli
 Sed
LYSIAS”Imp.revised)
             ΤΣ                  (ond Zep)
MANETHO." W. ὁ, “Waddell                    LEMY: TETRA.
MARCUS AURELIUS. Ὁ. Ἀ.Haines. (SrdJmmp.revisad)
MENANDER.
MINOR ATTIC F.G,        Allinson. 2 (2nd
                   ORATORS.”         Vols.”Imp,
                                              Vol.revised.)
                                                       I. ANTT-
  PHON, ANDOCIDES. K. J,Maidiment.
NONNOS: DIONYSIACA. “W,H,Ὁ, Rouse. 8 Vols.
   Wal ΤΠ Sud Imp)
OfPLAN,
PAPYRL COLLUTHUS       7RYPHIODORUS,
             |NON-LITERARY,         SELECTIONS,A.W. αὐMair5°
  ‘Hunt and Ὁ. Ὁ,            2 Vols LITERALLY Βεῖο:
  TIONS. Val.                   Deb. Page.         (nd Imp.)
PARTHENTUS, -(/, DAPHNIS ayo ΘΗ ΟΕ.
PAUSANIAS;
  Sone ieDESCRIPTION  Sar  OF
                            ol GREECE,
                                  range hyW.11.S.
                                             Re
PHILO.Pil
       rf
        TT Vols, vot.
                   Volsi       FE ason and
                             i H.Coleon. (Wal.Re
PAMZg
  TYANASRe?       ue tareὁ oF
          YCConsieare.     VolsaPOLLONIUS
                                   (Vo I rdfn,oF
PIILGSTRATOS)
 ‘DESCRIPTIONS. IMAGINES;
                A.Fairbanks, CALLISTRATUS.
PLARO                       “ip resin
  PBI LOVERS THEKGHS, INOS a0fiFPkecuras,
         CHARMIDES    ALofbrADES    LPINOMIS:
PLATO.
 ἘΠΕ    GRATYLUS, PARMENIDES,        GREATER
  im) ESSER HIPDIAS.ῃ
                               WN owl      (Gd

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_474>>>
THE LORB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
πάτο;
   DO,PHAEDRUS,HUTHYPHIRO,      |, Ν᾽APOLOGY,
                                         βοήν, (SchoRITO,  tmp) PHAE-
PLATO;DEMUS.” LACHES,WI     M. PLOTAGORAS,
                                  Lamb.      (2nd     MENG,
                                                     Jp.       vy AY:
                                                          rovied,)
PLATO: LAWS.               “Kev. HG. Bury. 2 Volo. (2nd Jmp)
PLATO:         EXSIS,
   amb. (UkJ. reed)       SyMPOSIUM,           "GoRGIAS ὙΠΟ,
PLATO: KalREPUBLIC.
paid                    Uh  2nd      Paul Shorey. 2 Voix (Vol.L
                                    me)
THON:   ‘TO: Welt
                STATRSMAN,   MeLaniy   PHILEBUS.
                                        Graze.            HL. N. Fowler:
PLATO, THEARISTUS                      ao SOPIST, τον, Yow,
   (Grd     Jp.)
riATOr TIMAEUS, CHETIAS, CLITOPONENEXE.
   RUS RVISNULAL,
PLUTARGI:             MOKALIA     |Mor 180.   VatBur,VotsGudImp)
   Babbitt
   Vowler. Vel. VI. W. Οἱ Ποιὰ ;Vel. Ἀν ἀκ
PLUTARCH,olsIME,Ly τι-PARALE        111, Vin,DL,VIE.LIVES,
                                                      and Xt. πὶSindPes
                                                                     fp)
ΡΝ Wi. Eston,” 6-Von.
PROCOPIUS:
   Dewing. 7 Vols.HISTORY     (Vol. 1. OFSudἴηι.)
                                               THE WARS. H. B.
PIOLEMY: TETRABIBLOS. Cf MANETHO.
QUINTUS SMYRNARUS. Α, S. Way. Verse trans,
   (GndImp.)
SEXTUS
   Nols, EMPIRICUS,
                [-Π|. (Vol. 1. ϑπὰRev.  Imp.) R. G. Bury. 4 Vols
SOPHOCLES,
   ἯΙ behmp) ΒΕ.           Store.trans,9 Vols. (Vol
                        Verse                            I.ΤὰImps Vol.
STRABO:
   (Vols. 1,V.GEOGRAPHY,
                     and VIL.              Horace L. Jones. 8 Volu
                                     2ndJmp.)
THEOPHRASTUS:
   HERODES,ete.ΑἹCHARACTERS.      Ὁ, Knox. @nd Imp.)    J. M. Edmonds;
THEOPHRASTUS:
  ‘Arthur Hort. 2 Vols.ENQUIRY INTO PLANTS. Sit
THUCYDIDES.
   ‘Vols. WI, andC.F       IV. 9nd Smith,
                                        finp.4Vols.
                                              resis.) (Vol.1.Srd Impy
‘TRYPHIGDORUS, 67 OPPIAN,
XENOPHON:
   (Vol. 1 2nd mp.,    CYROPAEDIA.
                            Vol, Il. Sra Fmp.)  Walter Mille, 9 Vols,
                                        °

<<<MURRAY_VOL2_PDF_PAGE_475>>>
THE LOEB CLASSICAL LIBRARY
XENOPHON: HELLENICA, ANABASIS, APOLOGY,
  S Volz, (Vols,             .
XENQPHON: ‘MEMORABILIA “hiOECONOMICUS,
  EC. Marchant,SCLIETA SHINORA. E. C.Marchant
XENOPHONS
 Gnd Imp.)
         VOLUMES IN PREPARATION
               (OREEK AUTHORS
ALCIPHRON. A, R, Benner and F, H, Fobes,
ARISTOTLE: DE MUNDO, εἰς. W. KC. Guthrie.
ARISTOTLE: HISTORY Of ANIMALS.” A. L. Peck,
ARISTOTLE: METEOROLOGICA. HD. P. Lee,
DEMOSTHENES:
     iB.       EPISTLES, ets, “N. W. and Ν, J
                LATIN AUTHORS
8. AUGUSTINE CITY OF GOD. |W. H. Semple.
 (CICERO ἡAD HERENNIUM. Ἡ, Caplan.
EICERO: DE INVENTIONE,. H. 3 Hubbell
CICERO: PRO SESTIO, “IN “VATINIUM, PRO
  CAELIO, DE PROVINCIIS CONSULARIBUS, PRO
  BALBO.’ 1. H. FreeseandR.Gardner.
PRUDENTIUS, Η,J. Thomson.


   DESORIPTIVE PROSPEOTUS ON APPLICATION
