HOMER'S ODYSSEY Cinematic rendering of the greatest poem of ancient Greek literature
Costumes from the tailorshops of the Scala Theatre in Milan.
Scenes after old drawings that are in the famous Brera library (Milan).
The adventures of Ulysses after the poem by Homer THE ODYSSEY
The departure of Ulysses
Ulysses says goodbye to his wife Penelope, his son Telemachus, his old father Laertes,
...and leaves Ithaka, to go to the war against Troy.
The ships of Ulysses leave Ithaca
Believing Ulysses to be dead, the suitors take possession of his house...
...and demand that Penelope choose a new husband among them.
Penelope manages to put off the choice of the new husband as long as until she will have finished weaving the shroud.
At night she undoes the stitches. Caught by the suitors doing this, she promises to complete the work.
After the destruction of Troy, Ulysses sets sail with his companions to return home.
Ulysses lands on the island of the cyclope Polyphemus.
Polyphemus devours one of Ulysses' companions.
Ulysses blinds the terrible Polyphemus.
Ulysses flees from Polyphemus with the surviving companions.
Ulysses flees with his companions from the cave of Polyphemus, letting the sheep carry them.
After the stolen sheep have been brought on the ships, Ulysses pushes away from land with his companions.
Ulysses mocks Polyphemus from the ships.
Polyphemus hurls a rock at Ulysses' ship and begs for Neptune's revenge.
To escape the seductive call of the sirens, Ulysses blocks the ears of his companions with wax,
...and has himself tied to the mast of the ship.
During the passage through the strait of Scylla and Charybdis...
...Ulysses' ship looses six more companions, whom the monster eats.
Ulysses lands in Sicily, where the sacred bulls of Jupiter are located.
End of the first part. A short break in order to prepare the second part.
Ulysses, who removed himself from his companions, is called back by the smoke of burning bulls.
Aching with hunger, despite his warnings, Ulysses' companions feed on the meat of the sacred bulls.
Jupiter delivers the lightning on Ulysses' ship to avenge himself.
Only Ulysses saves himself...
...and reaches the island of Calypso.
Where he spends seven years.
Calypso, by will of the gods, advises Ulysses to build a raft to return home.
Ulysses goes to work.
After a moving farewell, Ulysses leaves the island of Calypso.
To avenge Polyphemus, the seagod Neptune steers the ship to sea.
Saved by a miracle, Ulysses goes ashore at the mouth of a stream.
Nausicaa, the daughter of the Phaeacian king Alcinous, welcomes Ulysses,
...gives him clothes, and advises him that he head for her father.
Ulysses heads for the palace of the king.
After a cordial reception he recounts his adventures.
...he is given precious presents.
The ship of Alcinous finally takes Ulysses back to his homeland.
The sleeping Ulysses is brought ashore.
End of the second reel. One moment please to prepare the second part.
The goddess Minerva changes Ulysses into an old beggar, so that he isn't recognized by the suitors.
Ulysses heads for the hut of the old shepherd Eumaeus. Here he also finds his son Telemachus.
Minerva orders Ulysses to reveal himself to his son Telemachus.
With help from Minerva, Telemachus recognizes his father.
The suitors maltreat the beggar.
Loathly Ulysses observes the flirtations of his maids with the suitors.
Ulysses hides with his son Telemachus the suitors' weapons.
Penelope declares to wish to marry he among the suitors who is capable to string the bow of Ulysses.
Ulysses watches the inability of the suitors at stringing his bow, and now has his bow handed to himself.
Ulysses starts a massacre among the suitors.
Finally Penelope recognizes the husband and embraces him.
The end.
